-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Ee+W0Rf15uGHfGGWhPNt8uisglUFqW47auOmhlP7az4CXo46K7K6LlsH2U00z9Jm
 xxD+N+2wf8gY0eL8PHDX6Q==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001021408-01-001676.txt : 20010314
<SEC-HEADER>0001021408-01-001676.hdr.sgml : 20010314
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001021408-01-001676
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K405
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		19
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20001231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20010313

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001003124
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH [8731]
		IRS NUMBER:				561640186
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NC
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K405
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-27570
		FILM NUMBER:		1567285

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3151 SOUTH 17TH ST
		CITY:			WILMINGTON
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28412
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9102510081

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3151 SOUTH 17TH ST
		CITY:			WILMINGTON
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28412
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K405
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>0001.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000

                                      OR

[_]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

     For the transition period from _______________ to _______________

                        Commission file number 0-27570

                   PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           North Carolina                               56-1640186
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation  (IRS Employer Identification No.)
          or organization)

 3151 South Seventeenth Street
  Wilmington, North Carolina                               28412
(Address of principal executive offices)                 (Zip Code)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (910) 251-0081

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                    Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share
                               (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes    X     No ________
    --------

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

The aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant was $1,139,069,558 as of February 15, 2001, based upon the closing
price of the Common Stock on that date on the NASDAQ National Market System.
Shares of Common Stock held by each executive officer and director and by each
person who owns 10% or more of the outstanding Common Stock have been excluded
in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of
affiliate status might not be conclusive for other purposes.

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's class of Common Stock, par
value $0.10 per share, was 25,700,817 as of February 15, 2001.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its 2001 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders (certain parts as indicated in Part III).
<PAGE>

                                    PART I

     Statements in this Report that are not descriptions of historical facts are
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements reflect management's current
view with respect to certain future events and financial performance, but are
subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from
those currently anticipated due to a number of factors, including those set
forth herein and in our other SEC filings, and including, in particular:
dependence on certain industries; the commencement, completion or cancellation
of large contracts; dependence on personnel; competition; risks relating to
government regulation; potential liability associated with our lines of
business; management of growth; the fixed price nature of contracts; risks
associated with acquisitions and the other factors discussed in Item 1 under the
heading "Factors that Might Affect our Business or Stock Price". Because a large
percentage of our operating costs are relatively fixed, variations in the timing
and progress of large contracts can materially affect results.

Item 1.   Business

Overview

     We are a leading global provider of drug discovery and development services
to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our corporate mission is to help
clients maximize the return on their research and development investments. We
offer therapeutic expertise, advanced technologies and comprehensive resources
for both drug discovery and drug development.

     We have been in the drug development business for more than 15 years. Our
development services include preclinical programs through Phase 1 to Phase 4
clinical development. In addition, we also offer certain post-market support
services for drugs receiving approval for market use, such as product launch
services, patient compliance programs, and medical communications programs for
consumer and healthcare providers on product use and adverse events. We have
extensive clinical trial experience across a multitude of therapeutic areas and
encompassing various geographical areas, including regional, national and global
studies.

     With more than 3,700 professionals in 47 offices in 19 countries around the
world, we provided services to 42 of the top 50 pharmaceutical companies in the
world as ranked by 1999 healthcare research and development spending, in
addition to our work with leading biotechnology companies. We believe that we
are the world's third largest provider of drug development services to
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.

     Building on our outsourcing relationship with pharmaceutical and
biotechnology clients, we established our discovery services group in 1997. This
group focuses on functional genomics, which is the study of gene functions to
identify drug targets within the body, as well as biological chemistry research
and preclinical biology services.

     In addition, we developed an innovative risk-sharing research and
development partnership model to help pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients
develop compounds. Through these partnerships, we help our clients research and
evaluate the development potential for early stage compounds, when their
investment is significantly less than the amount at risk at later development
phases.

     As a result of having these core areas of expertise in discovery and
development, we can provide integrated services across the entire drug
development spectrum, from discovery to market and beyond.

Industry Overview

     Worldwide pharmaceutical drug sales were estimated to be approximately $337
billion in 2000, and are projected to increase to $506 billion by 2004,
according to IMS Health Incorporated, or IMS Health. However, discovering and
developing new drugs is an extremely expensive and time-consuming process. IMS
Health estimates that the average cost of developing a drug exceeds $500 million
and on average takes almost 15 years. Recent figures from IMS Health, the
Association for Medicines Research and our own estimates indicate that
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies invested approximately $57 billion in
research and development activities in 2000.

                                       2
<PAGE>

     The drug development services industry provides independent product
development services to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. This
industry has evolved from providing limited clinical trial services in the 1970s
to a full-service industry today that encompasses broader relationships with
customers, covering the entire drug development process, including preclinical
evaluations, study design, clinical trial management, data collection,
biostatistical analysis and product registration support. Approximately $5.6
billion in clinical trial support dollars was outsourced in 2000. The market
place for drug development services is expected to grow at an annual rate of 15%
or more in the future.

     Over the past 20 years, technological advances have dramatically changed
the drug discovery process. New and improved technologies have evolved such as
combinatorial chemistry, ultra high-throughput screening, new in vitro and in
vivo preclinical profiling techniques, and the revolution in genetic-based drug
research commonly referred to as genomics. The objective of these innovations is
to find more drug targets and to screen against targets much more quickly with
literally millions of chemical compounds. This process should produce many more
molecules having the ability to affect biological activity. These molecules need
to be tested quickly and economically.

The Drug Discovery and Development Process

     Drug discovery and development is the process of creating drugs for the
treatment of human disease. The drug discovery process aims to generate safe and
effective drug candidates, while the drug development process involves the
testing of these drug candidates for safety and efficacy in animals and humans.

     The Drug Discovery Process

        Targets. Historically, scientists have used classical cellular and
molecular biology techniques to map biological pathways in cells to provide a
cellular basis for understanding disease processes. Based on this information,
scientists are now using a new set of technologies called genomics to pinpoint
genes responsible for cellular disease functions. These genes encode proteins
that act as drug targets that can be used in functional screens to provide a
causal link between cellular function and occurrence of disease.

        Screening. After identifying a potential drug target, researchers
develop tests, or assays, in which chemicals are screened for their ability to
alter the functional activity of the target. Thousands of chemicals can be
quickly screened when these assays are incorporated into high throughput
screening processes. Assays can produce chemicals that interact with a drug
target known as "hits". Hits that have good potency and selectivity are called
"leads" which are then tested for their potential as drug candidates.

        Lead Generation. Scientists now design compound libraries to provide a
starting point to identify leads in the drug discovery process and to better
understand the biochemistry and therapeutic relevance of targets. High quality
libraries will contain compounds of known purity, structure and weight, and will
also have diverse structural variations. Once a hit is identified in a
functional assay, the compound is profiled for drug characteristics such as
solubility, metabolism, stability and feasibility for scale up.

        Lead Optimization. The process of "lead optimization" involves refining
the chemical structure of a lead to improve its drug characteristics, with the
goal of producing a preclinical drug candidate. Lead optimization typically
combines empirical lead optimization and rational drug design. In empirical lead
optimization procedures, large numbers of related compounds are screened for
selected chemical characteristics. In rational drug design, chemicals are
optimized based on the three-dimensional structure of the target. A lead that
has been optimized to meet particular drug candidate criteria and is ready for
toxicity testing is called a preclinical candidate.

        Process Research and Development. Compounds created for screening in
lead generation and lead optimization are synthesized in relatively small,
milligram quantities. Before a drug candidate can be taken into preclinical and
clinical trials, larger quantities must be synthesized. The goal of process
research is to improve the ease with which compounds can be synthesized in these
larger quantities, typically by minimizing the number of synthetic steps, and to
determine how to reduce the time and cost of production. Process development
refers to the production scale-up and further refinement required for clinical
trials and commercial manufacturing.

                                       3
<PAGE>

     The Drug Development Process

     The drug development process consists of two stages: preclinical and
clinical. The first stage is preclinical research, in which the new drug is
tested in vitro, or in a test tube, and in vivo, or in animals, generally over a
one- to three-year period. The following discussion describes the role of the
Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, in the drug development process in the
United States. Similar regulatory processes exist in other countries.

     Prior to commencing human clinical trials in the United States, a company
must file an Investigational New Drug, or IND, application with the FDA. The
company must provide available manufacturing data, preclinical data, information
about any use of the drug in humans for other purposes and a detailed plan for
the proposed clinical trials. The design of these trials, also referred to as
the study protocols, is essential to the success of the drug development effort.
The protocols must correctly anticipate the nature of the data to be generated
and results that the FDA will require before approving the drug. If the FDA does
not comment within 30 days after an IND filing, human clinical trials may begin.

     The clinical stage is the most time-consuming and expensive part of the
drug development process. The drug undergoes a series of tests in humans,
including healthy volunteers as well as patients with the targeted disease or
condition.

     Human trials usually start on a small scale to assess safety and then
expand to larger trials to test efficacy. These trials are usually grouped into
the following three phases, with multiple trials generally conducted within each
phase:


     .    Phase 1 trials involve testing the drug on a limited number of healthy
          individuals, typically 20 to 80 persons, to determine the drug's basic
          safety data, including tolerance, absorption, metabolism and
          excretion. This phase lasts an average of six months to one year.

     .    Phase 2 trials involve testing a small number of volunteer patients,
          typically 100 to 200 persons, who suffer from the targeted disease or
          condition, to determine the drug's effectiveness and how different
          doses work. This phase lasts an average of one to two years.


     .    Phase 3 trials involve testing large numbers of patients, typically
          several hundred to several thousand persons, to verify efficacy on a
          large scale, as well as long-term safety. These trials involve
          numerous sites and generally last two to three years.


     After the successful completion of all three clinical phases, a company
submits a New Drug Application, or NDA, to the FDA requesting that the drug be
approved for marketing. The NDA is a comprehensive, multi-volume filing that
includes, among other things, the results of all preclinical and clinical
studies. The FDA's review can last from a few months to several years, depending
on the drug and the disease state that is being treated. Drugs that successfully
complete this review may be marketed in the United States. As a condition to its
approval of a drug, the FDA might require additional clinical trials following
receipt of approval, in order to monitor long-term risks and benefits, to study
different dosage levels or to evaluate different safety and efficacy parameters
in target populations. In recent years, the FDA has increased its reliance on
these trials, known as Phase 3b and Phase 4 trials, which allow new drugs that
show early promise to reach patients without the delay typically associated with
the conventional review process.

Trends Affecting the Drug Discovery and Development Industry

     The drug discovery and development services industry has been and will
continue to be affected by the following trends:

     Rapid Technological Change and Increased Data. Scientific and technological
advancements are rapidly changing the drug discovery and development processes.
The technology to understand gene function, known as functional genomics, is
widely expected to result in a dramatic increase in the number of potential drug
targets within the human body. All of the human therapeutic drugs on the market
today are directed at approximately 500 targets. The genomics revolution is
projected to expand the number of potential targets to between 5,000 and 10,000.
This proliferation of potential targets increases the need for companies to use
state-of-the-art technologies to rapidly and effectively analyze large numbers
of compounds to identify and optimize promising lead drug candidates. This
technology and the human expertise necessary to manage and keep up with it are
costly. Companies can reduce their fixed costs by outsourcing this technology.

                                       4
<PAGE>

     Increase in Potential New Drug Candidates. The increase in potential new
drug candidates resulting from the genomics revolution has caused a bottleneck
in the drug development industry. While the number of drug candidates is
expected to rapidly increase, the time to develop a new drug candidate has not
been reduced and in fact has increased in the last 30 years. Pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies do not have the internal resources to pursue development
of all of these new drug candidates on their own. Consequently, these companies
are looking to the drug development services industry for cost-effective and
rapid means of developing new drugs.

     Biotechnology Industry Growth. The United States biotechnology industry has
grown rapidly over the last ten years. This industry is generating significant
numbers of new drug candidates that will require development and regulatory
approval. Many of these new drug candidates are now moving into clinical
development while many biotechnology companies do not have the necessary staff,
operating procedures, experience or expertise to conduct clinical trials on
their own. Because of the time and fixed cost involved, these companies do not
have the inclination to develop their own staff in this area. Moreover, the
United States biotechnology industry is expanding into and within Europe,
providing additional growth opportunities for drug discovery and development
services companies with global capabilities.

     Need for Large Scale Global Support. More pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies currently are filing drug registration packages in several major
jurisdictions simultaneously, rather than following the past practice of filing
sequentially. The studies to support these registration packages frequently
include a combination of multinational and domestic trials. This trend puts an
emphasis on global experience and significant process coordination throughout
the development process, including the collection, analysis, integration and
reporting of clinical trial data.

     Cost Pressures of Introducing New Drugs. Market forces and governmental
initiatives place significant pressure on pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies to reduce drug prices. Pressures on profit margins have arisen
primarily from increases in the cost of the drug discovery and development
process. In addition, increased competition as a result of patent expiration,
market acceptance of generic drugs, and governmental and private managed care
organization efforts to reduce healthcare costs have added to the pressures of
introducing a new drug. The industry is responding by consolidating, downsizing
operations, decentralizing the internal discovery and development process, and
minimizing fixed costs. In addition, increased pressure to differentiate
products and justify drug pricing are resulting in growth in healthcare
economics services with respect to drugs under development and those already on
the market. Consequently, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are
attempting to increase the speed of new drug discovery and development. By
identifying possible lead compounds and eliminating others from the discovery
process as early as possible, companies can focus their research and development
efforts more efficiently. Turning drug discovery and development processes over
to third parties also minimizes these companies' fixed costs.

The PPD Solution


     We address the needs of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries for
drug discovery and development by providing integrated services to help our
clients maximize the return on their research and development investments. We
believe that our integrated drug discovery and development services offer our
clients a way to identify and develop successful drugs more quickly and cost
effectively. We have developed significant drug development expertise from over
15 years of operation. Over the past three years, we have expanded our services
to include drug discovery services to help our clients identify potential new
drug candidates, reduce drug discovery time and minimize unproductive compound
development. We also use our proprietary informatics technology to support our
drug discovery and development services. Lastly, because we are positioned
globally, we are able to accommodate the multinational drug discovery and
development needs of our customers.

Our Strategy

     Our corporate mission is to help clients maximize the return on their
research and development investments. The key parts of our strategy to
accomplish this mission include the following:

     .  Continue to build upon our core competencies. We are an established
        --------------------------------------------
        company led by executives with significant discovery and development
        experience in major pharmaceutical companies bringing successful drugs
        to market throughout the world. This experience and expertise constitute
        our core operational strengths. Our effective performance in drug
        development services has made us, we believe, the third largest provider
        of those services in the world. We are continually leveraging this
        expertise as we expand

                                       5
<PAGE>

          our drug discovery services, informatics and collaborations to develop
          new drugs, such as our risk-sharing partnerships for development of
          early stage compounds.



     .    Continue to provide a broad range of integrated drug discovery and
          ------------------------------------------------------------------
          development products and services. We offer a broad range of
          ---------------------------------
          integrated products and services that are designed to address our
          clients' needs throughout the entire drug discovery, development and
          post-market spectrum. We believe that our range of drug development
          services is one of the most comprehensive available from a single
          company. By combining our drug discovery technology with our
          comprehensive development services, we believe we can more effectively
          serve our existing clients and attract new ones.

     .    Further develop our library of intellectual property rights. We
          -----------------------------------------------------------
          believe that one of the keys to our long-term performance is the
          development of our intellectual property rights in a variety of areas,
          including genomics, chemistry and software. We expect to invest more
          in developing our functional genomics technology, the GSX(TM) system,
          including the development of databases of functional information on
          genes. In the future we might, internally or through a partner,
          develop screening assays for our targets. We also plan to synthesize
          additional chemical libraries, both for sale and directed specifically
          at external targets. We expect to continue to develop associated
          software, such as our SAR System(TM) for chemical library design and
          First Pass(TM) for preclinical development program planning.

     .    Continue to master and incorporate advanced technologies into our
          -----------------------------------------------------------------
          service offerings. We believe that optimizing the use of advanced
          -----------------
          technologies can accelerate the drug development process and yield
          valuable marketing information. We have broad experience in the use of
          technology in drug discovery and development services, and offer a
          wide range of technology-based products and services. We use a mixture
          of commercially available third-party systems and selected internally
          developed software to offer our clients advanced technology for
          expediting the drug discovery and development processes. As new
          technologies develop, we equip and train our employees to make use of
          technological innovations. We also plan to consider expanding our
          current technology relationships, such as those with Oracle Corp., as
          well as with DNA Sciences, a diagnostics research and development
          company whose pharmacogenomics services and products we distribute.

     .    Continue to pursue collaborative drug candidate licensing
          ---------------------------------------------------------
          relationships. We plan to continue to selectively seek opportunities
          -------------
          for risk sharing partnerships on early stage compound discovery and
          development, such as our relationship with Eli Lilly regarding
          dapoxetine and other compounds. These in-licensing arrangements could
          provide us with opportunities, after further development, to license
          compounds to others in exchange for up-front, milestone and royalty
          payments. We might select additional candidate compounds from those
          available from Lilly and advance them into and through the drug
          development process. We are evaluating other in-licensing
          opportunities from other companies and from academic institutions
          seeking outlets for the continued development of their discoveries. We
          also intend to selectively pursue out-licensing arrangements where we
          would own discoveries made by us while providing drug discovery
          services to a customer, which we would be able to license or sell for
          commercial development.

     .    Continue strategic global expansion to meet client needs. We currently
          --------------------------------------------------------
          have operations in the Americas, Europe, South Africa, Asia, the
          Middle East and the Pacific Rim, which we believe, positions us to
          meet our clients' multinational needs. We intend to further expand
          globally, as we deem appropriate to meet our existing and prospective
          clients' demands.

     .    Continue to pursue strategic acquisitions. We will continue to
          -----------------------------------------
          actively seek strategic acquisitions, both within and complementary to
          our current products and services. Our criteria for acquisitions
          include complementary client lists, ability to increase market share
          within and across clients, complementary therapeutic area and service
          segment strengths, strategic geographic capabilities, particular
          process expertise, and complementary services, products or
          technologies.

Our Services

     We have been providing our core drug development services for over 15
years. Over the past few years, we have expanded our service portfolio to
include discovery and post-market support services. We provide services

                                       6
<PAGE>

that increase efficiency, reduce timelines and save costs through our global
infrastructure, integrated research and development technologies and experience,
and customer-focused communications.


     Our Discovery Sciences Group

     Our Discovery Sciences Group was established in 1997 and focuses on the
discovery research segment of the pharmaceutical research and development
outsourcing market. We have acquired or developed proprietary genetic and
chemical technologies to improve the productivity of biopharmaceutical research
and development. These technologies cover a number of discovery techniques,
including our patented GSX system, a functional genomics platform technology to
find and validate drug targets, biochemistry to optimize the targets and
preclinical biology to profile these potential drug candidates.

     Functional Genomics. Genomics is revolutionizing the process of drug
discovery through the sequencing of the human genome and the identification of
genes associated with disease. It is estimated that there are approximately
35,000-40,000 genes in the human genome. Genes are comprised of chemical
structures called nucleotides and it is the order of these nucleotides that make
up a gene sequence. Through a complex sequence of events, genes specify, or
encode, proteins that have specific functions in cells. Neither a gene sequence
nor gene disease association data alone provide sufficient information to
identify cellular proteins that make effective drug targets. Our proprietary
functional genomics technology provides the means to link gene sequences with
cellular mechanisms known or believed to be involved in disease to develop
effective screens for drug discovery.

     The basis for and the advantage of our proprietary GSX system are that it
identifies essential genes in a disease pathway based on function. The change in
function observed by our scientists enables them to identify a gene that has a
causal link to a particular disease. In the GSX system, we start with a set of
genes that we want to test as potential drug targets. These genes are then
broken up to generate a collection of small, random strings of nucleotides,
referred to as gene fragments. These gene fragments are then put into test cells
where the fragments will be converted into protein, or "expressed." Our
scientists observe the test cells to detect any change in a particular function.
We expect that some of the gene fragments will alter the activity of a component
of the test cells causing a desired change in a cellular property, or
"phenotype." Thus, it is essential to have cells that display a desired
biological property that is known or believed to be part of a disease pathway.
For example, a malignant cell is useful for identifying a gene fragment that
alters the growth pattern of the cell and therefore potentially has anti-tumor
activity.

     Our scientists look for cells in which a particular function has been
inhibited by the gene fragment introduced into the cell, such as loss of
malignant growth. The functional inhibition results from expression of certain
gene fragments in the cells that can effectively inhibit the function of the
whole, or full-length, gene corresponding to the fragment. In general terms, the
gene fragments are said to be acting on targets that are essential to the
cellular function that is inhibited. Such targets are the full-length gene. Each
inhibitory gene fragment is called a genetic suppressor element, or GSE. Some
GSEs interfere with the production of the protein encoded by the target gene,
while others inhibit the biochemical activity of the protein encoded by the
target gene. After our scientists identify cells with altered phenotypes, they
isolate the cells that display the desired phenotype and recover the inserted
GSE from these cells. Our scientists then determine the nucleotide sequence of
each GSE. Upon searching large databases containing gene sequences of the human
genome using a GSE sequence, we can frequently find the gene from which that GSE
came. The role of the newly identified target gene is then validated in a
biological assay that is relevant to a particular disease state.

     GSEs can themselves be used as therapeutic compounds or they can be used as
drug discovery tools. They are potentially useful for both functions because of
their inhibitory nature. Typically, GSEs are used to identify and validate drug
discovery targets based on the premise that if a GSE causes a desired effect on
a target, then a drug acting on the same target as the GSE should produce the
same outcome. Once we identify a target using our GSX system, a scientist can
easily test the ability of a chemical compound to inhibit the activity of the
target using any one of a variety of conventional biological assays, preferably
in a high throughput screening format to expedite the process.

     Our GSX system can be applied to finding treatment for such diseases as
cancer, heart disease, viral infections and others. In principle, the technology
permits identification of all necessary components of any disease pathway as
long as the component is involved in an observable phenotype. We offer our GSX
system as part of our services to collaborators throughout the drug discovery
process.

                                       7
<PAGE>

     Chemistry and Preclinical Biology. Our chemistry and preclinical biology
groups are devoted to assisting our customers from lead generation through IND
filing. These services include providing chemicals with selected structures for
screening, as well as employing a variety of methods to help determine which
hits and leads have drug-like characteristics that make them worthy of
additional study or optimization. We provide a broad range of chemistry and
preclinical products and services, including:

     .  lead generation;
     .  lead profiling and portfolio prioritization;
     .  lead optimization;
     .  preclinical program design and proprietary preclinical project
        management software;
     .  custom designed combinatorial libraries; and
     .  in vitro metabolism reagents.

     Lead Generation. The availability of high quality compound libraries that
have been designed with structures relevant for screening specifically against
important targets and that are designed for rapid lead optimization is a rate-
limiting step in the drug discovery process. We have developed synthesis
protocols to produce small molecule libraries so that any leads generated
require less optimization and have a greater likelihood of success of becoming
drug candidates. Our chemists can create scaffolds according to customer
specifications or directed toward specific targets. We can also provide library
synthesis as a re-synthesis service for a customer's in-house or previously
purchased compound libraries. The parallel synthesis strategy we employ
typically yields between one to 10,000 components in multi-well plates in which
a library is stored. We use all available components to input a range of
diversity for production of customer-unique libraries. We invest significant
effort in the process and synthesis of each library to ensure that the compounds
generated are of known purity, structure, diversity, and amount. We analyze the
library during each stage of its development to ensure the identity of each
compound and to maintain quality.

     We have developed proprietary software that uses various parameters to
define diversity in a library. Our SAR System is a proprietary software system
that analyzes how changes in chemical structure correlate with physical and
chemical parameters of compounds in a virtual library. The SAR System software
can be used prior to library synthesis to construct a virtual library based on
customer specifications. We can then minimize the components of the virtual
library to identify compounds that potentially interact with a particular target
to be screened as leads.

     We design and produce custom libraries of compounds for our clients. These
libraries are generally focused toward specific target families or our customer
specifications. We also produce custom-designed libraries for internal research
and development programs.

     Lead Profiling and Prioritization Resources. Our lead profiling and
prioritization services facilitate the early screening process and enable our
customers to choose compounds that have the best chance of success in the
preclinical and clinical arenas. We investigate available public information
about a lead compound to identify concerns that might involve the drug class,
potential clinical use or the market. In particular, we perform a manufacturing
and formulation feasibility analysis, including a drug stability analysis. We
can also perform computational analysis to predict absorption, toxicity or
metabolite characteristics of a lead compound. We can then employ a variety of
assays, including our patented Pharmazyme(TM) recombinant cytochrome P450
metabolic technology. Cytochrome P450s are a group of mixed-function liver
enzymes primarily responsible for metabolizing many drug substances. This
method, combined with other cellular assays, can identify metabolizing enzymes,
which are enzymes that may be inhibited and identify metabolites in conjunction
with chromatographic methods. Using such in vivo assays, we can also determine
pre-formulation, solubility and stability characteristics. We also employ a
process known as cassette dosing in animals, which allows us to simultaneously
evaluate a number of compounds.

     Lead Optimization. Our medicinal chemists can optimize structures to
improve the profile of a compound or lead series generated from multiple
starting points, including leads provided by our customers, leads generated
internally from our custom libraries, and leads from internally generated
libraries designed and synthesized to customer specifications. Regardless of the
lead's source, we emphasize simultaneous improvement of multiple parameters of
lead compounds. Because there is no single technology to accurately predict
clinical outcomes for potential drug candidates, we use a team of experts that
have a broad range of experience. Our experts are able to

                                       8
<PAGE>

evaluate and re-engineer compounds to improve compound solubility, absorption,
half-life, inherent toxicity, delivery or pro-drug generation.


Preclinical Program Design and Proprietary Preclinical Project Management
Software. Once a potential drug candidate is identified, we offer products and
services that enable our customers to reach a faster decision whether to advance
the drug candidate into a preclinical program and with a greater probability of
success. We offer our customers access to our proprietary web-based interactive
tool called First Pass, a software program that helps the user prepare an
efficient preclinical development plan based on a variety of parameters
including route of administration, therapeutic indication being treated,
mechanism of action of the compound or class, structure of the compound or
class, similarity of the compound to known marketed drugs, duration and patient
population. The program estimates costs, amount of material required and study
timelines. The program also helps identify studies critical for development. Our
experts can then provide full preclinical development services and can integrate
other development services internally.

     Our chemistry group also offers chemistry services, including:

     .    synthesis of stable isotope-labeled compounds;
     .    large scale chemical synthesis;
     .    synthesis of structurally complex clinical comparators, impurities and
          degradants;
     .    synthetic feasibility analysis to assess ease of scale-up;
     .    purification of active drug substance;
     .    re-certification of new or expired analytical standards;
     .    SAR analysis of compound portfolios;
     .    review of Type 2 Drug Master Files, IND/NDA Chemistry, Manufacturing
          and Controls sections, and patents; and
     .    drug metabolite, impurity and degradant characterization and
          identification.

     Drug Development Collaborations. For a number of reasons, mostly
limitations of development resources, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies
have discovered therapeutic compounds but have not yet begun to develop them.
The failure to develop often is because the discovery has efficacy outside of
the core therapeutic expertise of the company or the potential market for the
discovery falls below the company's minimum threshold for development. We
believe that there are attractive opportunities to selectively in-license these
discoveries, jointly develop them with a third party and license them out again
in collaborative arrangements that combine our global development resources with
these discoveries. We currently offer contract research services as part of
joint development agreements with owners of chemical compounds in need of
development.

     For example, in January 2001, we granted ALZA Corporation an exclusive
license to our compound, dapoxetine, for genitourinary indications, including
premature ejaculation. We received a license for such rights in 1998 as part of
a development collaboration with Eli Lilly. Under the terms of the agreement,
ALZA received worldwide rights to develop and commercialize dapoxetine and is
responsible for manufacturing, clinical, regulatory, sales and marketing costs
resulting from the license. In exchange, we received an up-front payment and
will receive royalties on net sales and milestone payments based on product
approval and meeting certain sales levels.

     We intend to continue to use our development expertise both on a fee for
service basis and in risk-sharing arrangements. We generally structure these
risk-sharing arrangements to provide us with up-front fees, milestone payments
and royalties as a compound is developed.

     Our Development Group

     We have designed our various global services to be flexible and integrated
in order to assist our clients in optimizing their research and development
spending through the clinical stages of the drug development process. We provide
a broad range of development services, either individually or as an integrated
package, to meet clients' needs. We provide software development and systems
integration services, and create data links between discovery and development.

     Phase 1 Clinical Testing.  We are one of  the industry's largest Phase 1
trial providers, with clinical testing services conducted in a 220-bed unit in
Austin, Texas, a 70-bed unit located near Research Triangle Park, North

                                       9
<PAGE>

Carolina, and a 50-bed unit in Leicester, England. Our professional nursing and
physician staff administers general Phase 1 safety tests, special population
studies, and bioavailability and bioequivalence testing. Bioavailability and
bioequivalence testing involves administration of test compounds and obtaining
biological fluids sequentially over time to measure absorption, distribution,
metabolism and excretion of the drug. Special population studies might involve
the elderly, women or patients with specific diagnoses, such as renal failure or
asymptomatic HIV disease. Our Austin, Texas site also has a Dental Research
Center to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of new analgesic compounds in
molar extraction models.

     Our in-house clinical laboratory supports the Phase 1 operations in Austin.
This laboratory performs analytical assays on volunteer specimens to ensure that
each subject qualifies for the study and is not adversely affected by a drug.
Having our laboratory in the same facility as the volunteers speeds our response
time to unexpected outcomes. This laboratory also provides services to function
as a central laboratory for Phases 2 through 4 studies. We manage our Phase 1
services to maximize scheduling flexibility and efficiency. These services also
can be integrated with our other services, such as laboratory, data management,
pharmacokinetic and biostatistical services.

     Laboratory Services. We provide bioanalytical services through good
laboratory practice, or GLP, compliant laboratories in Richmond, Virginia and
Middleton, Wisconsin. Our bioanalytical laboratories analyze biological fluid
samples from animal and human clinical studies. The latter includes those
conducted by our Phase 1 units as well as those conducted on behalf of our
clients from Phase 1 through Phase 4 for drug and metabolite content and
concentration. We currently have over 1,500 validated assays available for our
clients' use in conducting laboratory analyses, qualifying us for a wide range
of assignments. Our laboratories also process fluid samples for preclinical
studies.

     We provide product analysis laboratory services through our good
manufacturing practice, or GMP, compliant laboratory in Middleton, Wisconsin.
Our product analysis services include dissolution and stability studies, which
are necessary to characterize dosage form release patterns and stability under
various environmental conditions in the intended package for marketing. These
studies must be carried out from preclinical through Phase 1 to Phase 4 and
maintained over the commercial life of products. New formulations as well as
generics, those prescription products going to over-the counter status that no
longer require physician prescription for consumer use, require the same set of
studies as the original dosage form.

     Our analytical methods include gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, liquid
chromatography/mass spectrometry, high performance liquid chromatography, gas
chromatography, radioimmunoassay and enzyme linked immunosorbent assay. Support
services include facilities for handling HIV-positive samples, data management
for pharmacokinetic studies from multi-center trials and sample/data archiving.

     We are one of a few full service companies able to offer our clients the
advantages of both bioanalytical and product analysis, as well as Phase 1
clinical testing.

     Phases 2 through 4 Clinical Trial Management. The core of our development
business is a comprehensive package of services for the conduct of Phases 2
through 4 clinical trials, which, in concert with our other services, allow us
to offer our clients an integrated package of clinical management services. We
have significant clinical trials experience in the areas of:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
General Areas of Expertise            Specific Areas of Expertise
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
AIDS                                  Primary disease and treatment/prophylaxis
                                      of opportunistic infections
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Analgesia                             Acute and chronic pain modeling
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Biotechnology                         Growth hormone, multiple sclerosis, wound
                                      healing
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cardiovascular disease                Hypertension, angina pectoris, stroke
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Central nervous disease               Schizophrenia, depression, epilepsy,
                                      chronic pain, anxiety, obsessive-
                                      compulsive disorders, panic disorders
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Critical care                         Sepsis, ARDS (acute respiratory distress
                                      syndrome)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dermatology                           Wound healing, acne, hair loss, psoriasis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gastronenterology                     Duodenal ulcer, gastric ulcer, gastro-
                                      esophogeal reflux disease, H.pylori,
                                      nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-
                                      induced ulcers, inflammatory bowel
                                      disease, and irritable bowel disease
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Genitourinary                         Incontinence, sexual dysfunction
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                      10
<PAGE>

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Infectious disease                    Acute and chronic bacterial and fungal
                                      diseases, including pneumonia, influenza
                                      and sinusitis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Metabolic disease                     Diabetes, hormone replacement therapy
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Oncology                              Prostate, colorectal, breast, lung and
                                      other cancers
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pulmonary/Allergy                     Asthma, allergic rhinitis, community
                                      acquired pneumonia
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Rheumatology                          Rheumatoid and osteoarthritis
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Virology                              Herpes simplex, hepatitis B, chronic
                                      hepatitis C, herpes genitalia
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Women's health                        Osteoporosis, oral contraception
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

   We serve our clients' needs by conducting clinical trials through a project
team.  A project manager supervises all aspects of the conduct of the clinical
trial, while our clinical research associates are in the field monitoring the
trial at the various investigational sites where it is being conducted.  Within
this project-oriented structure, we can manage every aspect of the clinical
trial in Phases 2 through 4 of the drug development process.  The services that
we offer to initiate clinical trials include protocol development, case report
form design, feasibility studies, investigator selection, recruitment and
training, site initiation and monitoring, accelerated patient enrollment,
development of training materials for investigators, and training of clients'
staff.

   We monitor our clinical trials in compliance with government regulations.  We
have adopted global standard operating procedures intended to satisfy regulatory
requirements in the United States and in many foreign countries and serve as a
tool for controlling and enhancing the quality of our clinical trials.  All our
standard operating procedures are in compliance with good clinical practice, or
GCP, requirements and the International Conference on Harmonization, or ICH,
standards.  The FDA has adopted these standards, and the European Community has
agreed to conduct all studies in accordance with the standards. We compile,
analyze, interpret and submit data generated during clinical trials in report
form to the FDA or other relevant regulatory agencies for purposes of obtaining
regulatory approval.  We provide consulting on conducting clinical trials for
simultaneous regulatory submissions to multiple countries.

   We provide our clients with one or more of the following Phases 2 through 4
clinical trial management services using parallel processing to accelerate the
development process:

   Study Design.  We serve our clients in the critical area of study design by
applying our experience in the preparation of study protocols and case report
forms.

   Investigator Recruitment. During clinical trials, physicians, who are also
referred to as investigators, at hospitals, clinics or other locations,
supervise administration of the drug to patients. We recruit investigators who
contract directly with either us or our clients to participate in clinical
trials. For large scale Phase 4 trials, we use our Telecommunications Center ,
or TCC, for investigator recruitment. The TCC integrates telephones, relational
databases, computerized scripts and customized tracking software for
investigator recruitment, and centralized management of large scale Phase 4
trials.

   Study Monitoring.  We provide study-monitoring services, which include
investigative site initiation, patient enrollment assistance and data collection
through subsequent site visits.  We have monitored many clinical trials,
including a number of very large studies. For example, we are engaged in a
project with the National Institute of Health, begun in 1990, involving
approximately 500 investigational sites and approximately 88,000 enrolled
patients.  To date, this project has generated 251 protocols and over 2,300
pharmacy, regulatory and operational audits at the sites.

   Clinical Data Management and Biostatistical Analysis.  We provide clients
with assistance in such areas as study design, sample size determination, case
report form design and production, fax-based monitoring, database design and
construction, data safety and monitoring board summaries and presentations,
interim analyses, new drug application preparation and production, and FDA
presentations and defense.

   Medical Writing and Regulatory Services.  We provide full planning services
for product development, including preclinical review, chemistry, manufacturing
and controls, or CMC, consulting and clinical protocol development.  These
activities are complemented by report writing, program management and regulatory
services designed to reduce overall development time.

                                       11
<PAGE>

   Post-Development Support.   We provide custom-designed pharmaceutical and
medical information programs in support of post-marketed pharmaceutical
products.  Other services include clinical consultations with pharmacists,
nurses, veterinarians and other customer assistance specialists.

   Healthcare Economics, Outcomes and Marketing Research.  We offer a number of
services in the healthcare economics, outcomes and market research to
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as managed care payors and
providers.   These services include: prospective health economic and outcomes
studies incorporated into Phases 2 through 4 clinical trials; retrospective
studies including database valuations and medical chart reviews to analyze use
patterns; mathematical modeling of health economics and outcomes information to
real world settings; epidemiological study design and implementation; and
development and implementation of publication strategies for health outcomes and
marketing research results.

   Informatics.  Our informatics division develops specialized software products
to support different aspects of the pharmaceutical research and development
process, including drug discovery, clinical trials and regulatory review. Our
informatics clients include international and domestic pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies and government agencies, including the FDA.  Our current
informatics software products include:

 .   TableTrans(R), which automates data transformation and integration;
 .   CrossGraphs(R), which provides graphical displays of complex research
     data;
 .   Resolve(TM), which manages data queries to investigator sites; and
 .   Classify(TM), which manages global coding capabilities.

   A primary focus of our informatics division is to provide consulting services
to help pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies assess and resolve clinical
data management system challenges, such as integrating systems, deploying new
systems following mergers, or replacing legacy systems with commercial web-based
or client-server systems. In December 2000, we were selected by Oracle, a
leading provider of clinical data management software in the industry, as their
first application services provider to help other companies with upgrading their
internal programs with Oracle's new applications.

   We are continuing to build on our e- capabilities to offer time efficiencies
and enhanced quality through Web-based programs to our clients. We retooled our
internal clinical data management capabilities with Oracle's new Web-based
applications to help streamline our internal data management processes and we
are working with several clients on Remote Data Capture trials to accelerate the
capturing and cleaning of clinical data.  In addition, we developed automated
processes for delivery of key sections of clinical regulatory submissions to the
FDA and we use a cancer information Internet site, CancerConsultants.com, with a
reach of up to one million viewers per month as a primary tool for patient
recruitment in this therapeutic area.

   Pharmacogenomics. Pharmacogenomics is the use of genetic information to
predict the safety, toxicity and/or efficacy of drugs in individual patients or
groups of patients. In November 1997, we began providing pharmacogenetic
services for clinical trials with molecular genotyping, phenotyping and DNA
purification and archiving services through our GLP certified laboratories. In
February 1999, this business became part of PPGx, Inc., our pharmacogenomics
joint venture with Axys Pharmaceuticals, Inc. PPGx provides comprehensive
pharmacogenomics products and services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies by combining genetic research technologies from its computational and
research divisions, laboratory services and bioinformatics platform. We believe
that pharmacogenomics is becoming widely adopted as a drug discovery and
development tool and increasingly important in an individual's diagnosis and
treatment regimen. In December 2000, PPGx was acquired by DNA Sciences, Inc., a
genetics company focused on identifying the genetic basis of disease
susceptibility, prediction of disease progression and response to drug
treatment. We own a minority position in DNA Sciences and we also retained our
exclusive marketing and distribution rights to PPGx pharmacogenomics products
and services, sold under the brand name, Pharmacogenomic Solutions(TM).

Clients and Marketing

   We provide a broad range of research and development and consulting services
in the Development and Discovery Sciences Groups.  Through our Development
Group, we provide worldwide clinical research and development of pharmaceutical
products and medical devices, biostatistical analysis and analytical laboratory
services primarily to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.  Our Discovery
Sciences Group's services include target identification and validation, compound
creation, screening and compound selection.  We provide

                                       12
<PAGE>

services under contract to clients in the pharmaceutical, general chemical,
agrochemical, biotechnology and other industries. In addition, we perform
discovery research on certain compounds for which we hold a license. We market
our development services primarily in the United States and Europe. Our
discovery revenues have all been generated in the United States to date.
Approximately 13% of our Development Group's net revenues in 2000 were derived
from outside the United States, particularly in the United Kingdom.

   For the year ended December 31, 2000, approximately 85.0% of our Development
Group's net revenue was attributable to clinical services and 15.0% to
laboratory services.  For the year ended December 31, 2000, total net revenue
was derived approximately as follows:

                                                         Percentage of
     Source                                               Net Revenue
     ------                                               -----------
     Pharmaceutical                                             80.5%
     Biotechnology                                              13.2
     Government                                                  1.6
     Other                                                       4.7

   We believe that concentration of business among certain large customers is
not uncommon in our industry.  We have experienced this kind of concentration in
the past and might experience it in the future.  In 2000, one client accounted
for 10.7% of our net revenue.  In 2000, our ten largest clients accounted for
approximately 52.5% of our total net revenue and approximately 33.4% of our
total 2000 net revenue was derived from clients located outside the United
States, in particular in Europe and Japan.  Approximately 13% of our net revenue
is generated from countries outside the United States.  See Note 18 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report for the
breakdown of this revenue.

   Historically, the majority of our net revenue has been earned under
contracts.  These contracts generally range in duration from a few months to a
few years.  We recognize revenue from these contracts under either the
percentage of completion method of accounting or on a time and materials basis
as services are rendered.  Some of these contracts contain provisions for
renegotiations for cost overruns arising from changes in the scope of work.  We
include renegotiated amounts in net revenue when earned and realization is
assured. In some multi-year contracts, we receive a portion of the contract fee
at the time the trial is initiated.  We record these fees as deferred revenue
and then recognize them as income over the contract period using the percentage
of completion method. We receive additional payments based upon our achievement
of performance-based milestones over the contract duration. We routinely
subcontract with independent physician investigators in connection with either
single or multi-site clinical trials.  We reflect investigator fees net in
revenues because these investigator fees are paid by the customers to us on a
"pass-through basis" without risk or reward to us. Most contracts are terminable
either immediately or upon notice by the client. These contracts typically
require payment to us of expenses to wind down a study, fees earned to date,
and, in some cases, an early termination fee.

   With a primary focus on large pharmaceutical companies, we market our
functional genomics discovery technology through centralized corporate marketing
efforts to supplement localized communications by our scientists to client
scientists, with support from appropriate outside consultants and internal
consultative specialists.

   For all of our other products and services, we use centralized corporate
marketing to support the efforts of dedicated business development staff calling
on pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.  Our sales teams focus on client
segments and service areas.  In addition, while the service area representatives
call on particular buying groups within a given pharmaceutical client, sales
account managers are responsible for coordinating all outsourcing across our
service areas from that client.

   The top 20 pharmaceutical companies accounted for 87% of research and
development spending in 2000, so we concentrate on these companies.  Because the
top 50 biotechnology companies accounted for only 43% of the biotechnology
research and development expenditures, we consider additional factors such as
the stage of the drug's development and the financial stability of a company's
business in order to most appropriately focus our marketing efforts among
biotechnology companies.

   Our business development personnel consult with potential clients early in
the project consideration stage in order to determine their requirements.  Along
with the appropriate operational, technical or scientific personnel, our
business development representatives invest significant time to determine the
optimal means to design and execute the potential client's program requirements.
For example, for our drug development services, recommendations we

                                       13
<PAGE>

make to the potential client with respect to study design and implementation are
an integral part of our bid proposal process and an important aspect of the
integrated services we offer. We believe our preliminary efforts relating to the
evaluation of a proposed clinical protocol and implementation plan enhance the
opportunity for accelerated initiation and overall success of the clinical
trial.

   We encourage and sponsor the participation of our personnel in a variety of
scientific endeavors, including the presentation of papers at national and
international professional trade association meetings and the publication of
scientific articles in medical and pharmaceutical journals.  We believe these
activities advance and promote our reputation for professional excellence.  Our
core marketing and corporate communications include advertising in trade
journals and industry web sources, client presentation and detailing materials,
global speakers' bureau, educational symposia, media relations, direct mail/e-
mail campaigns and participation at professional trade shows.

Backlog

   Our backlog consists of anticipated net revenue from letters of intent,
verbal commitments and contracts that have not been completed.  Net revenue is
defined as professional fee income, or gross revenue, less reimbursed costs,
consisting principally of investigator fees and travel.  Once contracted work
begins, net revenue is recognized over the life of the contract.  The backlog
for the services under written agreements, including signed letters of intent,
was $498.2 million in net revenue at December 31, 2000, compared to $353.7
million in net revenue at December 31, 1999.

   We believe that our backlog as of any date is not necessarily a meaningful
predictor of future results, because backlog can be affected by a number of
factors, including the size and duration of contracts, many of which are
performed over several years. Additionally, contracts relating to our clinical
development business generally are subject to early termination by the client or
delay for many reasons, including unexpected test results. Also, the scope of a
contract can change during the course of a study. For these reasons, we might
not be able to fully realize our entire backlog as net revenue.

Intellectual Property

   We believe that patents, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights
are important to our business.  We also rely on trade secrets, know-how,
continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and
maintain our competitive position.

   We actively seek patent protection both in the United States and abroad.  As
of February 15, 2001, we owned or co-owned one issued United States patent and
12 pending United States patent applications, including one with allowed claims.
Our issued United States patent primarily relates to our proprietary human
immunodeficiency virus, or HIV, drug target gene sequences and related target
discovery technologies.  Our pending United States patent applications primarily
relate to proprietary genomic and genetic information, chemical compounds,
clinical development business methods and software.   We have filed or plan to
file applications in other countries corresponding to most of our United States
applications. As of February 15, 2001, we had 15 pending foreign filings,
including 5 pending Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT, filings.

   We also have obtained licenses for numerous other patents from academic
institutions and pharmaceutical companies. As of February 15, 2001, we had
exclusive license rights to 13 issued United States patents and nine pending
United States patent applications, as well as corresponding foreign filings.

   Pursuant to the terms of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act, patents issuing
from applications filed on or after June 8, 1995 have a term of 20 years from
the date of filing, irrespective of how long it takes for the patent to issue.
Because patent applications in the pharmaceutical industry often take a long
time to issue, this method of patent term calculation can result in a shorter
period of patent protection afforded to us compared to the prior method of term
calculation (17 years from the date of issue).  Under the Drug Price Competition
and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 and the Generic Animal Drug and Patent
Term Restoration Act, a patent that claims a product, use or method of
manufacture covering drugs may be extended for up to five years to compensate
the patent holder for a portion of the time required for FDA review.  However,
we might not be able to take advantage of the patent term extension provisions
of this law.

                                       14
<PAGE>

   In addition, we rely on trade secrets and continuing technological
innovation, which we try to protect with reasonable business procedures for
maintaining trade secrets, including confidentiality agreements with its
collaborators, employees and consultants. We also have numerous trademark
registration applications pending in the United States and other jurisdictions
throughout the world.

Employees

   At December 31, 2000, we had approximately 3,700 professionals, of whom 3,400
were in the Development Group, 75 were in the Discovery Sciences Group and the
remainder served in corporate operations functions. Of our staff, approximately
240 hold Ph.D., M.D., Pharm.D. or D.V.M. degrees and approximately 510 hold
other masters or other postgraduate degrees. None of our employees are subject
to a collective bargaining agreement.  We believe that our relations with our
employees are good.

   We believe that our success is based on the quality and dedication of our
employees.  We strive to hire the best available people in terms of ability,
experience, attitude and fit with our performance philosophy and standard
operating procedures.  We train new employees extensively, and we believe that
we are an industry leader in the thoroughness of our training programs.  In
addition, we encourage our employees to continually grow and broaden their
skills through internal and external training programs.  As new technologies
develop, we equip and train our employees to make use of technological
innovations.

Competition

   The drug development outsourcing industry consists of several hundred
smaller, limited-service providers and a few full-service global drug
development companies.  The industry is consolidating and, in recent years, a
few large, full-service competitors have emerged.  This trend of industry
consolidation appears to have created greater competition among the larger
companies for clients and acquisition candidates.  Our Development Group's
primary competitors include  Covance, ICON, Kendle International, MDS Pharma,
Parexel and Quintiles Transnational Corporation.  We also compete against some
medium-sized companies, and in-house research and development departments of
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and teaching
hospitals.  In addition, the industry has few barriers to entry.  Newer, smaller
entities with specialty focuses, such as those aligned to a specific disease or
therapeutic area, may compete aggressively against larger companies for clients.
Increased competition might lead to price and other forms of competition that
may adversely affect our operating results.

   Providers of outsourced drug development products and services compete on the
basis of several factors, including reputation for on-time quality performance,
expertise and experience in specific therapeutic areas, scope of service
offerings, price, strengths in various geographic markets, technological
expertise and systems, ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in a
time-saving accurate manner, ability to manage large-scale clinical trials both
domestically and internationally, and expertise and experience in healthcare
economics.  Although there can be no assurance that we will continue to do so,
we believe that we compete favorably in these areas.

   As a general matter, the drug development services industry is not capital-
intensive and the financial costs of entry into the industry are relatively low.
Despite recent consolidation, this industry remains highly fragmented, with
several hundred smaller, limited-service providers and a few full-service
companies with global capabilities.  Although there are few barriers to entry
for smaller, limited-service providers, we believe there are significant
barriers to becoming a global provider offering a broad range of products and
services.  These barriers include:

 .   the cost and experience necessary to develop broad therapeutic expertise;
 .   the ability to manage large, complex clinical trials;
 .   the experience to prepare regulatory submissions throughout the world; and
 .   the infrastructure and knowledge to respond to the global needs of clients.

   Our informatics division has agreements with several of the major software
vendors in pharmaceutical applications.  Competitors for our informatics
consulting services include major consulting companies with pharmaceutical
industry groups, for example, Andersen Consulting, CSC and EDS, and smaller
companies with a pharmaceutical industry focus, for example, DataCeutics, FCG
Netforce and CSS.  Competitors for our informatics software products include
larger software vendors such as SAS, but are mainly smaller, specialized
software companies.

                                       15
<PAGE>

   Our Discovery Sciences Group competes principally on the basis of reputation,
scientific and technical expertise, experience and qualifications of
professional staff, quality of services, and ability to deliver quality products
to the client's specifications. The outsourced functional genomics, chemistry
and preclinical research industry consists of several dominant providers and
numerous smaller niche companies. Our Discovery Sciences Group faces significant
competition from these companies, as well as competition from research teams
funded internally by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. While the trend
to outsource research is increasing, the vast majority of research spending by
these companies is for their own internal research personnel. As such, our
ability to attract and retain qualified technical personnel and to continue to
develop intellectual property are key components in our ability to compete
successfully.

Government Regulation

   Our clients are subject to extensive regulations by government agencies.
Consequently, the services that we provide for these clients must comply with
relevant laws and regulations.

   Prior to commencing human clinical trials in the United States, a company
developing a new drug or biologic must file an investigational new drug
application, or IND, with the FDA. If the product is a drug, the IND is
submitted to FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, or CDER. If the
product is a biologic, the IND is submitted to FDA's Center for Biologic
Evaluation and Research, or CBER. The IND must include information about animal
toxicity and distribution studies, manufacturing and control data, stability
data and a detailed plan, or study protocol, for the proposed clinical trial of
the drug or biologic in humans. If the FDA does not object within 30 days after
the IND is filed, human clinical trials may begin. The study protocol will also
be reviewed by the institutional review board, or IRB, in each institution in
which a study is conducted, and an IRB may impose additional requirements on the
way in which the study is conducted in its institution.

   Human trials usually start on a small scale to assess safety and then expand
to larger trials to test efficacy. The trials are generally conducted in three
phases, which may overlap, although the FDA may require a fourth phase as a
condition of approval. After the successful completion of the first three
clinical phases, a company requests approval for marketing its product by
submitting a new drug application, or NDA, to CDER, or a biologics license
application, or BLA, to CBER, depending on the nature of the product. The NDA or
BLA is a comprehensive, multi-volume filing that includes, among other things,
the results of all pre-clinical and clinical studies, information about how the
product will be manufactured and tested, additional stability data and proposed
labeling. The FDA's review can last from six months to many years, with the
average review lasting 18 months. Once the NDA or BLA is approved, the product
may be marketed in the United States subject to any conditions imposed by the
FDA.

   Laboratories such as ours that provide information that is included in INDs,
NDAs and BLAs, must conform to certain regulatory requirements that are designed
to ensure the quality and integrity of the testing process. For example, our
bioanalytical laboratories in Richmond, Virginia and Middleton, Wisconsin follow
the FDA's good laboratory practice regulations, or GLPs. These regulations have
also been adopted by the Department of Health in the United Kingdom and by
similar regulatory authorities in other countries. Our product analysis lab in
Middleton, Wisconsin follows the FDA's good manufacturing practice, or cGMP,
regulations. For both GLP and cGMP, the regulations require standardization
procedures for studies, for recording and reporting data, and for retaining
appropriate records. To help ensure compliance for GLP, we have established
quality controls at our laboratory facilities to monitor ongoing compliance by
auditing test data and conducting regular inspections of testing procedures. To
help ensure compliance with cGMP and GLP, our laboratories have established both
quality control and quality assurance onsite at our laboratory facilities.

   In addition, laboratories that analyze human blood or other biological
samples must comply with the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act, or CLIA. CLIA
requires laboratories to meet certain staffing, proficiency and quality
standards. The laboratory in our Austin, Texas facility is CLIA-certified and
also has a voluntary certification given by the American Society of Clinical
Pathologists.

   The industry standard for the conduct of clinical research is embodied in the
FDA's good clinical practice regulations, or GCPs, and the guidelines issued by
ICH, which have been agreed upon by the United States, many European governments
and the Japanese.  These standards require that those conducting clinical
trials:

 .   comply with regulations governing the selection of qualified investigators;
 .   obtain specific written commitments from investigators;
 .   verify that informed consent is obtained from patients;

                                       16
<PAGE>

 .   monitor the validity and accuracy of data;
 .   verify product accountability; and
 .   instruct investigators to maintain proper records and reports.

   Our global standard operating procedures are written in accordance with all
FDA and ICH requirements.  This enables our work to be conducted locally,
regionally and globally to standards that exceed all currently applicable
regulatory requirements.

   In the past few years, both the United States and foreign governments have
become more concerned about the disclosure of confidential patient data.  The
European Union, or EU, now prohibits the disclosure of personal confidential
information, including medical information, to any entity that does not comply
with certain security safeguards.  American companies can satisfy these
requirements by filing for safe harbor status according to a particular
procedure agreed to by the EU and the United States.  We intend to file for safe
harbor status in the near future.

   The Department of Health and Human Services recently promulgated final
regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996, or HIPAA, that will govern the disclosure of confidential medical
information in the United States.  These regulations went into effect on
February 26, 2001, and compliance with the standards set by the regulations will
be mandatory by February 26, 2003.  We already have a global confidentiality
policy in place, which includes a designated privacy officer, and we believe
that we comply with the EU and HIPAA requirement.  Nevertheless, we are still in
the process of determining what additional procedures we will have to adopt to
comply with these new regulations.

   We are also subject to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or
OSHA, and federal, state and local regulations that govern the use or disposal
of toxic substances, biological wastes, radioactive materials.

   The failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in
the termination of ongoing research or the disqualification of data for
submission to regulatory authorities.  Furthermore, the issuance of a notice of
finding by a governmental authority against either us or our clients, based upon
a material violation by us of any applicable regulation, could materially and
adversely affect our business.

Factors that Might Affect our Business or Stock Price

Changes in trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries could
adversely affect our operating results.

   Industry trends and economic factors that affect our primary customers,
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, also affect our business.  For
example, the practice of many companies in these industries has been to hire
companies like us to conduct large drug development projects.  If these
industries reduce their tendency to outsource those projects, our operations,
financial condition and growth rate could be materially and adversely affected.
One year ago, mergers and other factors in the pharmaceutical industry appear to
have slowed decision making by pharmaceutical companies and delayed drug
development projects.  A revival of these trends could have an ongoing adverse
effect on our business.  In addition, numerous governments have undertaken
efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and
voluntary agreements with medical care providers and pharmaceutical companies.
If future regulatory cost containment efforts limit the profits that can be
derived on new drugs, our customers might reduce their drug discovery and
development spending, which could reduce our business.

Our revenue depends on a small number of industries and clients.

   We provide products and services to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology
industries and our revenue is highly dependent on expenditures by clients in
these industries.  Accordingly, our operations could be materially adversely
affected by the current trend toward consolidation in these industries or other
factors resulting in a decrease in the number of our potential customers. If the
number of our potential customers declines even further, they may be able to
negotiate price discounts or other terms for our products and services that are
unfavorable to us.  We have experienced customer concentration in the past; for
example, in the year ended December 31, 2000, one customer accounted for 10.7%
of our net revenue.  We are likely to experience continued customer
concentration in the future.  The loss of business from a significant client
could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

                                       17
<PAGE>

   In addition, most of our contracts are terminable by the client upon 30 to 90
days' notice. Clients terminate or delay their contracts for a variety of
reasons, including, but not limited to:

 .   products being tested fail to satisfy safety requirements;
 .   products have undesired clinical results;
 .   the client decides to forego a particular study;
 .   our inability to enroll enough patients in the study;
 .   our inability to recruit enough investigators; or
 .   production problems cause shortages of the drug.

We might not be able to recruit and retain the experienced personnel we need to
compete in the drug discovery and development industry.

   Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate
highly skilled personnel.

   Management

   Our future success depends on the personal efforts and abilities of the
principal members of our senior management and scientific staff to provide
strategic direction, develop business, manage our operations and maintain a
cohesive and stable environment. In particular, we rely on the services of
Fredric N. Eshelman, Pharm.D., our Chief Executive Officer. Although we have an
employment agreement with Dr. Eshelman, as we do with other executive managers,
this does not mean Dr. Eshelman or any other executive manager with whom we have
an employment agreement will remain with us. We do not have employment
agreements with all of our key personnel.

   Health Care Providers

   Our ability to maintain, expand or renew existing business with our customers
and to get business from new customers, particularly in the drug development
sector, depends on our ability to hire and retain health care providers with the
skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in drug development
technologies.  Competition for experienced health care providers is intense.  We
compete with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our customers
and collaborators, contract research companies, and academic and research
institutions to recruit health care providers.

   Scientists

   Our ability to maintain, expand or renew existing business with our customers
and to get business from new customers in both the drug development as well as
the drug discovery areas also depends on our ability to hire and retain
scientists with the skills necessary to keep pace with continuing changes in
drug discovery and development technologies.  We face the same risks and
challenges in attracting and retaining experienced scientists as we do with
health care providers.


   Our inability to hire additional qualified personnel might also require an
increase in the workload for both existing and new personnel.  We might not be
successful in attracting new health care providers, scientists or management or
in retaining or motivating our existing personnel.  The shortage of experienced
health care providers and scientists, and other factors, might lead to increased
recruiting, relocation and compensation costs for these professionals, which
might exceed our expectations.  These increased costs might reduce our profit
margins or make hiring new health care providers and scientists impracticable.
If we are unable to attract and retain any of these personnel our ability to
execute our business plan will be adversely affected.

Our future success depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological
changes that could make our products and services less competitive or obsolete.

   The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries generally and drug discovery
and development specifically are subject to increasingly rapid technological
changes.  Our competitors or others might develop technologies, products or
services that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or
future products, and services, or that render our technologies, and products and
services less competitive or obsolete.  If competitors introduce superior
technologies, products or services and we cannot make enhancements to our
technologies,

                                       18
<PAGE>

products and services necessary for them to remain competitive, our competitive
position, and in turn our business, revenues and financial condition, will be
seriously harmed. This, in turn, would likely cause our stock price to decline.

Any failure by us to comply with existing regulations would harm our reputation
and operating results.

   Any failure on our part to comply with existing regulations could result in
the termination of ongoing research or the disqualification of data for
submission to regulatory authorities.  This would harm our reputation, our
prospects for future work and our operating results.  For example, if we were to
fail to verify that informed consent is obtained from patient participants in
connection with a particular clinical trial, the data collected from that trial
could be disqualified, and we could be required to redo the trial under the
terms of our contract at no further cost to our customer, but at a substantial
cost to us.   Furthermore, the issuance of a notice from the Food and Drug
Administration based on a finding of a material violation by us of good clinical
practice, good laboratory practice or good manufacturing practice requirements
would materially and adversely affect us.

Our drug development business exposes us to personal injury claims that could
affect our financial condition.

   Our drug development business involves the testing of new drugs on human
volunteers. This testing exposes us to the risk of liability for personal injury
or death to patients resulting from, among other things, possible unforeseen
adverse side effects or improper administration of a new drug. Many of these
patients are already seriously ill and are at risk of further illness or death.
We could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages
or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of
indemnification agreements we have with clients, if any indemnification
agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability
exceeds the amount of any applicable insurance. We might not be able to get
adequate insurance at reasonable rates. Consequently, a product liability claim
or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured
liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.

Our business has experienced substantial expansion in the past and we must
properly manage that expansion.

   Our business has expanded substantially in the past.  Rapid expansion could
strain our operational, human and financial resources.  If we fail to properly
manage our expansion, our results of operations and financial condition might be
hurt.  In order to manage expansion, we must:

 .   continue to improve our operating, administrative and information systems;
 .   accurately predict our future personnel and resource needs to meet client
     contract commitments;
 .   track the progress of ongoing client projects; and
 .   attract and retain qualified management, sales, professional, scientific
     and technical operating personnel.

   In addition, we have numerous business groups, subsidiaries and divisions.
If we cannot properly manage these groups, subsidiaries or divisions, it will
disrupt our operations.

   We will face additional risks in expanding our foreign operations.
Specifically, we might find it difficult to:

 .   assimilate differences in foreign business practices;
 .   hire and retain qualified personnel; and
 .   overcome language barriers.

The fixed price nature of our development contracts could hurt our operating
results.

   Many of our contracts for the provision of drug development services are at
fixed prices. As a result, we bear the risk of cost overruns. If we fail to
adequately price our contracts or experience significant cost overruns, our
operating results could be materially adversely affected. In the past, we have
had to commit unanticipated resources to complete certain projects, resulting in
lower gross margins on these projects. We might experience similar situations in
the future, which would have a material adverse impact on our operating results.

If we are unable to attract suitable willing volunteers for our clinical trials,
our development business might suffer.

                                       19
<PAGE>

   Our clinical research studies rely upon the ready accessibility and willing
participation of volunteer subjects. These subjects generally include volunteers
from the communities in which the studies are conducted, including our Phase 1
centers in Austin, Research Triangle Park and Leicester, which to date have
provided a substantial pool of potential subjects for research studies. However,
our clinical research development could be adversely affected if we were unable
to attract suitable and willing volunteers on a consistent basis.

Future acquisitions or investments could disrupt our ongoing business, distract
our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our
business.

   We anticipate that a portion of any future growth of our business might be
accomplished by acquiring existing businesses. The success of any acquisitions
will depend upon, among other things, our ability to integrate acquired
personnel, operations, products and technologies into our organization
effectively, to retain and motivate key personnel of acquired businesses and to
retain customers of acquired firms. We cannot assure you that we will be able to
identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on
acceptable terms. Any future acquisitions could involve certain other risks,
including the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, potentially
dilutive issuances of equity securities and diversion of management's attention
from other business concerns.

   Acquisitions of foreign companies also might involve the additional risks of,
among others, assimilating differences in foreign business practices and
overcoming language barriers.  There can be no assurance that acquisitions made,
or to be made, by us will be successfully integrated into our operations.

Our business is subject to international economic, currency, political and other
risks that could negatively affect our revenue and results of operations.

   Because we provide our drug development services worldwide, our business is
subject to risks associated with doing business internationally.  Our revenue
from our non-U.S. operations represented approximately 12% of our total revenues
for the year ended December 31, 2000.  We anticipate that revenue from
international operations will grow in the future.  Accordingly, our future
results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including:

 .   changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which could result in foreign
     currency losses to the income statement;
 .   Changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic
     conditions, including Western Europe, in particular;
 .   potential negative consequences from changes in tax laws affecting our
     ability to expatriate profits;
 .   difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; and
 .   unfavorable labor regulations applicable to our European operation, such as
     the unenforceability of non- competition agreements in the United Kingdom.

Because we have only limited experience in providing drug discovery services,
our prospects for success in this business remain uncertain and we might be
unsuccessful in our discovery business.

   We established our drug discovery group in 1997 and have only limited
experience with these activities and might not be successful in our drug
discovery efforts.  Our ability to generate revenue and income from our drug
discovery business will depend on our ability to:

 .   develop products internally or obtain rights to them from others on
     favorable terms;
 .   complete laboratory testing and human studies;
 .   obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products;
 .   obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals related to the
     efficiency and safety of our products;
 .   enter into arrangements with third parties to manufacture our products on
     our behalf; and
 .   enter into arrangements with third parties to provide sales and marketing
     functions.

   Recently, we began selectively offering compound collaborative services.
These new businesses might require us to make more investment in property,
technology and personnel to be successful in those endeavors and to be ready for
potential future growth in those services.   We might not be able to meet the
resource demands necessary to expand or meet those services in the future.

                                       20
<PAGE>

Our future success in our drug discovery efforts will depend on our ability to
enter into collaborations with other companies.


     We will need to enter into collaborative arrangements, first to obtain
rights to potential drug targets, and then for the development, manufacturing
and commercialization of those products when and if they are approved. We have
limited or no control over the resources that a company that collaborates with
us devotes to our product candidates. Any present or future entity with which we
collaborate with might not perform its obligations as expected. These entities
also might breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to
conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner.
Further, parties collaborating with us might elect not to develop product
candidates arising out of collaborative arrangements or not to devote sufficient
resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of these product
candidates.


The drug discovery and development services industry is highly competitive.


     The drug discovery and development services industry is highly competitive.
We often compete for business not only with other drug discovery and development
companies, but also with internal discovery and development departments within
our clients, who are often large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with
greater resources than ours.  If we do not compete successfully, our business
will suffer.  The industry is highly fragmented, with numerous smaller
specialized companies and a few full-service companies with global capabilities.
Increased competition might lead to price and other forms of competition that
might adversely affect our operating results.  As a result of competitive
pressures, the industry has been consolidating.  This trend is likely to produce
more competition among the larger companies for both clients and acquisition
candidates.  In addition, there are few barriers to entry for smaller
specialized companies considering entering the industry.  Because of their size
and focus, these companies might compete effectively against larger companies
such as us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business.


Proposed and future regulations might increase the cost of our business or limit
our product or service offerings.


     Federal or state authorities might adopt healthcare legislation or
regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations.  These changes
in regulation could increase our expenses or limit our ability to offer some of
our products or services. For example, the confidentiality of patient-specific
information and the circumstances under which it may be released for inclusion
in our databases or used in other aspects of our business are subject to
substantial government regulation.  Additional legislation governing the
possession, use and dissemination of medical record information and other
personal health information has been proposed at both the state and federal
levels.  Proposed federal regulations governing patient-specific health
information might require us to implement new security measures that require
substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our products and
services.  These regulations might also increase costs by creating new privacy
requirements for our informatics business and mandating additional privacy
procedures for our clinical research business.


We might lose business opportunities as a result of healthcare reform.



     Numerous governments have undertaken efforts to control growing healthcare
costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care
providers and drug companies.  Healthcare reform could reduce demand for our
products and services and, as a result, our revenue.  In the last few years, the
U. S. Congress has reviewed several comprehensive health care reform proposals.
The proposals intended to expand health care coverage for the uninsured and
reduce the growth of total health care expenditures.  While the U.S. Congress
did not adopt any of the proposals, Congress may adopt similar proposals in the
future.  If the U.S. Congress approves any of these proposals, pharmaceutical
and biotechnology companies might react by spending less on research and
development.  If this were to occur, we would have fewer business opportunities,
which could reduce our earnings.  Similarly, pending or future healthcare reform
proposals outside the United States could negatively impact our revenues from
our international operations.


Our business uses biological and hazardous materials, which could injure people
or violate laws, resulting in liability that could hurt our financial condition
and business.


     Our drug discovery and development activities involve the controlled use of
potentially harmful biological materials, as well as hazardous materials,
chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We cannot completely eliminate the
risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or
disposal of these

                                       21
<PAGE>

materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for
damages that result, and any liability could exceed our resources. Any
contamination or injury could also damage our reputation, which is critical to
getting new business. In addition, we are subject to federal state and local
laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these
materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws
and regulations could be significant.


Our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights would hurt
our business.


   Our success will depend in part on our ability to protect the proprietary
software, compositions, processes and other technologies we develop during drug
discovery and the development process through patenting. In addition, one of our
business strategies is to license rights to drug candidates and enter into
collaborations with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for the
development of drug candidates. The proprietary rights associated with such drug
candidates must remain protected.


   Although we have filed 12 United States patent applications, only one patent
has been issued. Any patents that we own or license in the future might not
provide valuable protection for the technology or products. Our efforts to
enforce and maintain our intellectual property rights might not be successful
and might result in substantial costs and diversion of management time. In
addition, others might challenge patents we control and, as a result, these
patents could be narrowed, invalidated, rendered unenforceable or blocked. If
blocked, we might be forced to stop using some or all of the technology or to
license the technology from third parties. In addition, current and future
patent applications on which we depend might not result in the issuance of
patents in the United States or foreign countries. Even if our rights are valid,
enforceable and broad in scope, competitors might develop products based on
similar technology that is not covered by our patents claims.


   In addition to patent protection, we also rely on copyright, trademark and
trade secrets protection, as well as know-how, continuing technological
innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the
confidentiality and ownership of our intellectual property, we require our
employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality and proprietary
information agreements. However, these agreements might not provide us with
adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential
information and there might not be adequate remedies in the event of
unauthorized use or disclosure. Furthermore, we from time to time hire
scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or
more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our
confidentiality and proprietary information agreements might conflict with, or
be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants
or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we
require our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all
confidential information of previous employers, these individuals or we might be
subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims
as a result of their prior affiliations. Finally, others might independently
develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or otherwise gain
access to our trade secrets. Our failure to protect our proprietary information
and techniques might inhibit or limit our ability to exclude certain competitors
from the market and to execute our business strategies.


The drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other
intellectual property litigation, and we might be involved in costly
intellectual property lawsuits.


   The drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other
intellectual property litigation, and these lawsuits will likely continue.
Because we provide many different products and services in this industry, we
face potential patent infringement suits by companies that control patents for
similar products and methods used in business or other suits alleging
infringement of their intellectual property rights. In order to protect or
enforce our intellectual property rights, we might have to initiate legal
proceedings against third parties. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual
property would be expensive, take significant time and divert management's
attention from other business concerns, whether we win or lose. The cost of this
kind of litigation could affect our profitability. Further, if we do not prevail
in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial
damages, including treble damages, and we could be required to stop the
infringing activity or obtain a license to use the patented technology.

                                       22
<PAGE>

Item 2.   Properties


   As of February 15, 2001, we had 47 offices located in 19 countries. Our
principal executive offices are located in Wilmington, North Carolina. We own
and operate 4 facilities, including a 52-bed Phase 1 facility in Leicester,
England, a building in Kersewell, Scotland, and two buildings in Durham, North
Carolina, which we acquired when we purchased ATP, Inc. (currently entitled PPD
Medical Communications) in March 1999. We lease all our other facilities. We
believe that our facilities are adequate for our operations and that suitable
additional space will be available when needed. The locations, approximate
square footage and lease expiration dates of our operating facilities comprising
more than 10,000 square feet as of February 15, 2001 were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         Approximate
                                                                           Square             Lease Expiration
              Location                               Group                 Footage                  Date
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>                     <C>                  <C>
Morrisville, North Carolina                      Development and           258,000            11/30/05 - 1/23/15
                                                    Discovery
Wilmington, North Carolina                         Development             135,000            11/30/06 - 9/21/09
Austin, Texas                                      Development             174,000             7/31/01 - 11/8/10
Richmond, Virginia                                 Development              60,000             6/30/02 - 8/31/04
Menlo Park, California                              Discovery               25,000                        6/1/07
San Bruno, California                              Development              21,000                       9/30/04
Middleton, Wisconsin                               Development              60,000              5/1/10 - 9/30/11
Columbia, Maryland                                 Development              12,000                       7/31/03
Lawrenceville, New Jersey                          Development              11,000                       5/31/02
Blue Bell, Pennsylvania                            Development              21,000                       8/31/05
Westminster, Colorado                              Development              15,000                       1/31/05
Brussels, Belgium                                  Development              24,000                       9/30/08
Cambridge, United Kingdom                          Development              19,000                      12/24/07
Johannesburg, South Africa                         Development              11,000                      10/31/01
</TABLE>


Item 3.   Legal Proceedings


   In the normal course of business, we are a party to various claims and legal
proceedings.  Although the ultimate outcome of these matters is not yet
determined, after consultation with legal counsel we do not believe that the
resolution of these matters will have a material effect upon our financial
condition or results of operations in any interim or annual period.

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


   No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000.

                                       23
<PAGE>

Executive Officers

   The following table contains information concerning our executive officers as
of February 15, 2001:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                    Name                        Age                        Position(s)
                    ----                        ---                        -----------
<S>                                           <C>    <C>
Fredric N. Eshelman., Pharm.D. ...............   52  Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
Fred B. Davenport, Jr.........................   49  Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary
Philippe M. Maitre............................   44  Chief Financial Officer, Vice President - Finance, Treasurer
Paul S. Covington.............................   44  Senior Vice President - Medical Affairs, Chief Safety Officer
Francis J. Casieri............................   58  Senior Vice President - Global Business Development
Linda Baddour.................................   42  Chief Accounting Officer
</TABLE>


   Fredric N. Eshelman, Pharm.D., has served as Chief Executive Officer and as a
director since July 1990, and as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors since
1993.  Dr. Eshelman founded our company's predecessor in 1985 and served as its
Chief Executive Officer until its sale to us in 1989.  Prior to rejoining us in
1990, Dr. Eshelman served as Senior Vice President, Development and as a
director of Glaxo Inc., a subsidiary of Glaxo Holdings plc.

   Fred B. Davenport, Jr. is our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary.  Prior to his employment by us in December 1996, Mr. Davenport was a
partner in the Wilmington, North Carolina law firm of Murchison, Taylor,
Kendrick and Gibson, L.L.P., which he joined in 1977.  Mr. Davenport was also a
member of the faculty of the University of North Carolina at Wilmington's
Cameron School of Business Administration from 1982 to 1991.

   Philippe M. Maitre is our Chief Financial Officer.  Prior to joining us in
August 2000, Mr. Maitre was Deputy-Chief Financial Officer and Corporate
Controller for Aventis Pharmaceutical Company.  Mr. Maitre joined Rhone-Poulenc
in 1981, which subsequently merged with Hoechst Marion Roussel to form Aventis.
Mr. Maitre earned his master's degree in finance from Hautes Etudes de Commerce
business school in Paris.

   Paul S. Covington is our Senior Vice President of Medical Affairs and Chief
Safety Officer.  Dr. Covington joined us in September 1991. He is board
certified in internal medicine and licensed in North Carolina and Alabama. Prior
to joining us, Dr. Covington was in private practice in Clanton, Alabama from
1985 to 1990 where he served as Chief of Staff and head of Critical Care and
Cardiopulmonary for the local hospital. From 1991 to 1992, he was Medical
Director for the Birmingham site of Future Healthcare Research Centers.

   Francis J. Casieri is our Senior Vice President of Global Business
Development.  Mr. Casieri served as our Director of Business Development from
1991 to 1994.  Prior to rejoining us in 1999, Mr. Casieri served as Vice
President, Business Development for PharmaResearch Corporation from 1997 to 1999
and Vice President, Operations for Cytrx Corporation from 1994 to 1997.  Prior
to 1991, Mr. Casieri worked with Johnson & Johnson for over twenty years in a
variety of capacities, including ten years as Executive Director, Manufacturing
and Logistics for Janssen Pharmaceutica, a Johnson & Johnson subsidiary.

   Linda Baddour is our Chief Accounting Officer.  She also served as our
Interim Chief Financial Officer from February 2000 until August 2000.  Prior to
her employment by us in December 1995, Ms. Baddour was the Controller for
Cooperative Bank for Savings Inc. from 1980 to 1995. Ms. Baddour is a certified
public accountant and received her Masters in Business Administration from the
University of North Carolina at Wilmington.

                                       24
<PAGE>

                                    PART II

Item 5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
          Matters

   Our common stock is traded under the symbol "PPDI" in the over-the-counter
market and is quoted on the National Market System of the National Association
of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System, or NASDAQ.  The following
table sets forth the high and low prices for shares of our common stock, as
reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.  These prices
are based on quotations between dealers, which do not reflect retail mark-up,
markdown or commissions.

                            2000                          1999
                   ---------------------------------------------------
                      High         Low              High         Low
                   ---------------------------------------------------

First Quarter       $ 29.00     $ 10.875           $ 38.50     $ 27.00

Second Quarter      $ 21.75     $ 13.875           $ 34.25     $ 21.75

Third Quarter       $ 27.25     $ 18.875           $ 29.00     $ 11.56

Fourth Quarter      $ 58.75     $ 24.875           $ 15.25     $  8.56



   As of February 15, 2001, there were approximately 10,500 holders of our
common stock.

   Prior to our acquisition of PPD Medical Communications in March 1999, PPD
Medical Communications paid dividends to their shareholders of $868,000 in the
year ended December 31, 1998.  We have no present plans to pay cash dividends to
our shareholders and, for the foreseeable future, intend to retain all of our
earnings for use in continuing to develop our business.  The declaration of
dividends is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and is dependent
upon our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, as well as any
other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors

Item 6.   Selected Consolidated Financial Data

   The following table represents selected historical consolidated financial
data. The statement of operations data for the years ended December 31, 1998,
1999 and 2000 and balance sheet data at December 31, 1999 and 2000 are derived
from our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this
report. The statement of operations data for each of the years ended December
31, 1996 and 1997, and the balance sheet data at December 31, 1996, 1997 and
1998 are derived from our financial statements which are not included elsewhere
in this report. The historical results are not necessarily indicative of the
operating results to be expected in the future. The selected financial data
should be read together with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" and our financial statements and notes to
the financial statements.

                                       25
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Years Ended December 31,
                                                     1996 (1) (4)   1997 (4)    1998 (4)       1999        2000
                                                     ------------   --------    --------       ----        ----
                                                                (in thousands, except per share data)

<S>                                                  <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>           <C>
Net revenue (2)                                      $ 156,905     $ 193,851    $ 246,454    $ 302,530     $ 345,318
                                                     ---------     ---------    ---------    ---------     ---------

Operating expenses                                     147,394       175,909      220,831      265,604       301,771
Merger costs, and acquired in-process
 research and development costs                         14,773         9,670        3,163          218             -
                                                     ---------     ---------    ---------    ---------     ---------
                                                       162,167       185,579      223,994      265,822       301,771
                                                     ---------     ---------    ---------    ---------     ---------
Income (loss) from operations                           (5,262)        8,272       22,460       36,708        43,547
Other income (expense), net                              1,814         1,429        3,588        4,337         7,284
                                                     ---------     ---------    ---------    ---------     ---------
Income (loss) from continuing operations
before provision for income taxes                       (3,448)        9,701       26,048       41,045        50,831
Provision for income taxes                               2,257         3,363        9,448       12,154        18,521
                                                     ---------     ---------    ---------    ---------     ---------
Income (loss) from continuing operations                (5,705)        6,338       16,600       28,891        32,310
Income (loss) from operations of discontinued
 environmental sciences segment, net (3)                 2,874         4,152        4,614         (395)            -
                                                     ---------     ---------    ---------    ---------     ---------
Net income (loss)                                    $  (2,831)    $  10,490    $  21,214    $  28,496     $  32,310
                                                     =========     =========    =========    =========     =========
Income (loss) from continuing operations
 per share:
 Basic                                               $   (0.26)    $    0.27    $    0.69    $    1.18     $    1.29
                                                     =========     =========    =========    =========     =========
 Diluted                                             $   (0.26)    $    0.27    $    0.69    $    1.16     $    1.28
                                                     =========     =========    =========    =========     =========

Income (loss) from discontinued operations
 per share:
 Basic                                               $    0.13     $    0.18    $    0.19    $   (0.02)    $       -
                                                     =========     =========    =========    =========     =========
 Diluted                                             $    0.13     $    0.18    $    0.19    $   (0.01)    $       -
                                                     =========     =========    =========    =========     =========
Net income (loss) per share:
 Basic                                               $   (0.13)    $    0.45    $    0.88    $    1.16     $    1.29
                                                     =========     =========    =========    =========     =========
 Diluted                                             $   (0.13)    $    0.44    $    0.88    $    1.15     $    1.28
                                                     =========     =========    =========    =========     =========

Weighted average number of shares outstanding:
 Basic                                                  21,873        23,555       23,991       24,566        24,965
 Dilutive effect of stock options                            -            60          169          287           212
                                                     ---------     ---------    ---------    ---------     ---------
 Diluted                                                21,873        23,615       24,160       24,853        25,177
                                                     =========     =========    =========    =========     =========
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  As of December 31,
                                               ---------------------------------------------------------
                                               1996 (4)      1997(4)      1998 (4)      1999        2000
                                               --------      --------     --------      ----        ----
                                                                  (in thousands)
<S>                                           <C>           <C>           <C>          <C>         <C>
Consolidated Balance Sheet Data:
Cash and cash equivalents                     $  22,108     $  16,067     $  34,821    $  61,251   $  76,411
Marketable securities                            14,210         7,994             -            -           -
Working capital                                  67,373        70,581        93,309      104,973     106,903
Total assets                                    183,244       199,653       243,329      288,703     344,915
Long-term debt                                    1,497           406           224          359       1,353
Long-term debt, including current portion         5,722         5,315         5,656          570       1,967
Shareholders' equity                            116,553       129,332       158,769      192,464     233,943
</TABLE>



(1)  The net loss for 1996 was affected by $14.8 million of merger costs
     incurred in connection with the acquisition of Applied Bioscience
     International Inc. After associated tax benefits, the impact on net income
     of such merger costs was $13.0 million.

(2)  Revenues are presented net of subcontractor costs. See accompanying
     Consolidated Statements of Operations included elsewhere in this report.

(3)  The discontinued operations include our environmental sciences group sold
     in January 1999. All periods presented have been restated to exclude the
     results of operations of the environmental sciences group.

(4)  As restated, see Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
     included elsewhere in this report.

                                       26
<PAGE>

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations

Overview

   During 2000, we reported net income of $32.3 million, or $1.28 per diluted
share, compared to net income of $28.5 million, or $1.15 per diluted share,
during 1999. Excluding the gain on sale of PPGx, our adjusted net income of
$32.0 million was 26.3% higher than the prior year adjusted net income of $25.3
million, excluding non-recurring tax benefit, discontinued operations and merger
costs.

   In March 1999, we acquired ATP, Inc., a health information services company.
We acquired all of the outstanding stock of ATP, Inc. in exchange for
approximately 876,000 shares of our common stock. In February 2001, we changed
the name of this subsidiary to PPD Medical Communications. PPD Medical
Communications provides customized inbound and outbound telecommunications
programs targeting consumers and healthcare providers. We accounted for this
acquisition as a pooling of interests transaction. Accordingly, our financial
statements include results of PPD Medical Communications for all periods
presented.

   In February 1999, we invested in PPGx with Axys Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to
pursue the business of pharmacogenomics, which is the use of genetic information
to predict the characteristics of drugs. We contributed $1.5 million in cash,
the stock of our Intek subsidiary and the rights to a software license in
exchange for an 18.2% ownership interest in PPGx. We accounted for our
investment in PPGx under the cost method. In December 2000, PPGx was acquired by
DNA Sciences, Inc., a genetics discovery company focused on identifying the
genetic basis of disease susceptibility, disease progression and response to
drug treatment in exchange for 1,478,000 shares of Series D preferred stock of
DNA Sciences. We owned 11.2% of DNA Sciences as of December 31, 2000 and we also
retained our exclusive marketing rights to PPGx pharmacogenomics products and
services, sold under the brand name Pharmacogenomic Solutions.

   Effective January 31, 1999, we sold our environmental sciences group to
Environ Holdings, Inc., a new company formed by the management of the
environmental sciences group. We received $1.2 million in cash, a note in the
amount of $7.0 million (which was paid in full in the first quarter of 1999) and
a 12-year note in the amount of $18.0 million. We have received all payments due
on the 12-year note through February 2001. We did not recognize a gain or loss
as a result of the sale because the sales price was equal to the book value of
the net assets sold. We also entered into a three-year consulting agreement to
provide consulting services to Environ Holdings for a fee of $0.5 million per
year.

   In May 1998, we created GenuPro, Inc., a subsidiary that holds a license to a
number of compounds in the genitourinary field, which were purchased from Eli
Lilly & Co. in the second quarter of 1998. We recorded an acquired in-process
research and development charge of $3.2 million in the second quarter of 1998
related to the purchase of these compounds because the compounds were in the
initial stage of research and development at the date they were acquired.
GenuPro is a part of our Discovery Sciences Group.

   In February 1998, we sold substantially all of the assets of the Chicago
Center for Clinical Research. The sales price was $5.3 million in cash and a
five-year promissory note for $2.5 million. The sale resulted in a gain of
approximately $1.1 million, which we recognized as other income during the first
quarter of 1998. We have received all principal and interest payments on the
note due through February 2001.

Results of Operations

   We record revenues from fixed-price contracts on a percentage-of-completion
basis in our Development Group. Revenues from time-and-material contracts are
recognized as hours are accumulated multiplied by the billable rates for each
contract in both our Development Group and Discovery Sciences Group. Revenues
are recorded net of reimbursement received from clients for pass-through
expenses, which generally include subcontractor costs that consist of
investigator fees, travel and certain other contract costs.


   Discovery Sciences Group revenues also include revenue from sales of
technology license fees. Nonrefundable license fees received at the initiation
of license agreements for which we have an ongoing research and development
commitment are deferred and recognized ratably over the period of the related
research and

                                       27
<PAGE>

development. Nonrefundable license fees received from license agreements for
which we are not obligated to perform future research and development services
are recognized upon delivery of the technology.

     We record our recurring operating expenses among three categories:

   .  direct costs;
   .  selling, general and administrative; and
   .  depreciation and amortization.

     Direct costs consist of appropriate amounts necessary to complete the
revenue and earnings process, and include direct labor and related benefit
charges, other costs directly related to contracts, and an allocation of
facility and information technology costs. Direct costs, as a percentage of net
revenues, tend and are expected to fluctuate from one period to another, as a
result of changes in labor utilization and the mix of service offerings
involving the hundreds of studies conducted during any period of time.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of
administrative payroll and related benefit charges, advertising and promotional
expenses, recruiting and relocation expenses, administrative travel and an
allocation of facility and information technology costs. Included in
administrative payroll are costs associated with operational employees managing
direct staff, underutilization of direct staff and administrative support
functions.

     Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of depreciation costs
recorded on a straight-line method on property and equipment with an estimated
useful life over one year. In addition, the excess of the purchase price of a
business acquired over the fair value of net tangible assets and identifiable
intangibles and acquired in-process research and development costs at the date
of the acquisitions has been assigned to goodwill. Goodwill is being amortized
over periods of 10 to 25 years.

                                       28
<PAGE>

   The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, amounts for
certain items in our consolidated financial statements expressed as a percentage
of net revenue from continuing operations and the percentage changes in dollar
amounts of certain items compared with the prior period:


              Percentage of Net Revenue from Continuing Operations
              ----------------------------------------------------
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                For the Years Ended December 31,
                                                   1998 (2)                  1999                       2000
                                            ------------------       -------------------       ------------------
                                             Amount        %          Amount        %           Amount        %
                                            --------     -----       --------     -----        --------     -----
                                                                  (dollars in thousands)
<S>                                        <C>           <C>        <C>           <C>         <C>           <C>
Net revenue: (1)
   Development                             $ 245,527      99.6%     $ 299,769      99.1%      $ 330,516      95.7%
   Discovery sciences                            927       0.4          2,761       0.9          14,802       4.3
                                           ---------     -----      ---------     -----       ---------     -----
                                             246,454     100.0        302,530     100.0         345,318     100.0
Direct costs:
   Development                               123,562                  147,439                   167,317
   Discovery sciences                          3,623                    7,719                     7,390
                                           ---------                ---------                 ---------
                                             127,185      51.6        155,158      51.3         174,707      50.6
Selling, general and
 administrative expenses                      80,893      32.8         95,604      31.6         109,831      31.8
Depreciation and amortization                 12,753       5.2         14,842       4.9          17,233       5.0
Acquired in-process research
   and development costs                       3,163       1.3              -         -               -         -
Merger costs                                       -         -            218       0.1               -         -
                                           ---------     -----      ---------     -----       ---------     -----
Operating income                           $  22,460       9.1%     $  36,708      12.1%      $  43,547      12.6%
                                           =========     =====      =========     =====       =========     =====
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Percentage Change
                                                                     For the Years Ended December 31,
                                                              ---------------------------------------------
                                                              1999 vs. 1998                   2000 vs. 1999
                                                              -------------                   -------------
<S>                                                           <C>                             <C>
Net revenue:
  Development                                                      22.1%                           10.3%
  Discovery sciences                                              197.8                           436.1
    Total net revenue                                              22.8                            14.1
Direct costs:
  Development                                                      19.3                            13.5
  Discovery sciences                                              113.1                            (4.3)
Selling, general and administrative expenses                       18.2                            14.9
Depreciation and amortization                                      16.4                            16.1
</TABLE>


__________________
(1)  Net of subcontractor costs.
(2)  As restated, see Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
     included elsewhere in this report.

                                       29
<PAGE>

   The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, amounts for
certain items in our consolidated financial statements excluding non-recurring
items:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     Years Ended December 31,
                                          -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          1996 (1)(2)(7)   1997 (2)(3)(7)  1998 (2)(4)(7)    1999 (2)(5)       2000 (6)
                                          --------------   --------------  --------------    -----------       --------
                                                              (in thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                       <C>              <C>             <C>               <C>              <C>
Net revenue                                $ 156,905         $ 193,851        $ 246,454       $ 302,530       $ 345,318
Operating expenses                           147,394           175,909          220,831         265,604         301,771
                                           ---------         ---------        ---------       ---------       ---------
Income from operations                         9,511            17,942           25,623          36,926          43,547
Other income (expense), net                    1,814             1,429            3,588           4,437           6,786
                                           ---------         ---------        ---------       ---------       ---------
Income from continuing operations before
   provision for income taxes                 11,325            19,371           29,211          41,363          50,333
Provision for income taxes                     4,519             7,562           11,243          16,049          18,324
                                           ---------         ---------        ---------       ---------       ---------
Net income                                 $   6,806         $  11,809        $  17,968       $  25,314       $  32,009
                                           =========         =========        =========       =========       =========
Weighted average number of
   diluted shares outstanding                 21,319            22,885           24,160          24,853          25,177
                                           =========         =========        =========       =========       =========
Net income per diluted share               $    0.32         $    0.52        $    0.74       $    1.02       $    1.27
                                           =========         =========        =========       =========       =========
</TABLE>

(1)  Excludes $14.8 million of merger costs incurred in connection with the
     acquisition of Applied Bioscience International Inc.

(2)  The discontinued operations of our environmental sciences group, which was
     sold in January 1999, are excluded from the income statement.

(3)  Excludes $9.1 million of acquired in-process research and development costs
     associated with the acquisition of the GSX system, and $0.6 million of
     merger costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of Belmont
     Research, SARCO and Intek Labs.

(4)  Excludes $3.2 million of acquired in-process research and development costs
     associated with the acquisition of a license to six genitourinary
     compounds. Also excludes the gain on the sale of Chicago Center for
     Clinical Research of $1.1 million.

(5)  Excludes non-recurring tax benefit of $3.8 million and interest expense of
     $0.1 million associated with a short sale and repurchase of U.S. Treasury
     bonds. Also excludes $0.2 million of merger costs incurred in connection
     with the acquisition of PPD Medical Communications.

(6)  Excludes gain on the sale of PPGx of $0.5 million.

(7)  As restated, see Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
     included elsewhere in this report.


Year Ended December 31, 2000 Versus Year Ended December 31, 1999


     Net revenue increased $42.8 million, or 14.1%, to $345.3 million in 2000
from $302.5 million in 1999. The Development Group's operations accounted for
95.7% of net revenue for 2000. The Development Group generated net revenue of
$330.5 million, an increase of $30.7 million, or 10.3%, from 1999. The growth in
the Development Group operations was primarily attributable to an increase in
the size, scope and number of contracts in the global contract research
organization, or CRO, Phase 2 through 4 division as well as the increase in the
number of contracts in the North America Phase 1 and laboratory services.


     The Discovery Sciences Group generated net revenue of $14.8 million in
2000, an increase of $12.0 million, or 436.1%, from 1999. The growth in the
Discovery Sciences operations was primarily attributable to revenue generated by
the functional genomics division as a result of entering into new contracts in
January 2000 and July 2000. In addition, the combinatorial chemistry division
had an increase in contracts during 2000.


     Total direct costs increased 12.6% to $174.7 million in 2000 from $155.2
million in 1999 and decreased as a percentage of net revenue to 50.6% for 2000
as compared to 51.3% in 1999.  Development direct costs increased to $167.3
million in 2000 as compared to $147.4 million in 1999.  The increased direct
cost dollars resulted primarily from increased personnel costs due to the
increase in the size and number of contracts in the global CRO Phase 2 through 4
division.  The Development Group direct costs increased as a percentage of
related net revenue to 50.6% in 2000 from 49.2% in 1999.  This increase is
principally due to the mix of levels of personnel involved in the contracts
performed and an increase in personnel utilization due to quality initiatives.
Discovery Sciences direct costs decreased to $7.4 million in 2000 as compared to
$7.7 million in 1999.  This decrease was primarily due to the combination of
$3.3 million in additional costs for a Phase 2 trial associated with GenuPro in
1999 which was

                                       30
<PAGE>

partially offset by an increase in the functional genomics division's costs
associated with that division's increase in net revenues in 2000.

     Selling, general and administrative, or SG&A, expenses increased 14.9% to
$109.8 million in 2000 from $95.6 million in 1999. The increase was primarily
attributable to an investment in additional administrative personnel and an
increase in facility and information technology costs to support expanding
operations. As a percentage of net revenue, SG&A expenses increased slightly to
31.8% in 2000 from 31.6% in 1999.

     Total depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.4 million, or
16.1%, to $17.2 million in 2000 from $14.8 million in 1999. The increase was
related to the depreciation of the increased investment in property and
equipment due primarily to our growth. Capital expenditures were $21.5 million
in 2000. Additional scientific equipment in our laboratories accounted for
approximately 33.2% of this capital investment. Furniture and leasehold
improvements in existing facilities accounted for approximately 25.6%, while the
enhancement and expansion of information technology capacities accounted for
approximately 26.0%. The remaining capital expenditures were incurred
predominantly in connection with the expansion of existing operations and the
opening of new offices.

     During the first quarter of 1999, we recorded merger costs of $0.2 million
in connection with the acquisition of PPD Medical Communications. These costs
were primarily cash expenses, such as legal and accounting fees, related to this
transaction. We had no merger costs in 2000.

     Operating income increased $6.8 million to $43.5 million in 2000, as
compared to $36.7 million in 1999. As a percentage of net revenue, operating
income of 12.6% in 2000 represents an improvement from 12.1% of net revenue in
1999. These increases were primarily due to our focus on controlling the
increase in both direct and administrative costs, as revenues increased.

     In December 2000, we exercised our option to increase our ownership in PPGx
to 50% and then sold our investment in PPGx to DNA Sciences, Inc. for 1,479
shares of DNA Sciences Series D preferred stock. As a result of this
transaction, we recognized a pre-tax gain from the sale of PPGx of $0.5 million.

     Net interest and other income (exclusive of the gain on sale of PPGx
mentioned above) increased $2.9 million, or 56.5%, to $6.8 million for 2000 from
$4.3 million in 1999. The increase was primarily the result of the increase in
interest income of $2.3 million. We recognized $1.6 million in interest income
related to the notes receivable from the Chicago Center for Clinical Research
and Environ Holdings in both 1999 and 2000.

     We recorded a loss from discontinued operations, net of income tax expense,
related to our environmental sciences group, of $0.4 million in 1999. We sold
our environmental sciences group on January 31, 1999.

     Our provision for income taxes increased $6.3 million, or 52.4%, to $18.5
million in 2000, as compared to $12.2 million in 1999. Our effective income tax
rate increased to 36.4% in 2000 from 29.6% in 1999, primarily due to an
investment transaction entered into in the fourth quarter of 1999, which created
a significant capital gain. We offset this capital gain with a capital loss
carryforward, which had previously been fully reserved. As a result of the
reversal of the valuation allowance on this capital loss carryforward, we
recognized a tax benefit of approximately $3.8 million.

     Net income of $32.3 million in 2000 represents an increase of $3.8 million
over $28.5 million in 1999. Net income per diluted share of $1.28 for 2000
compares to $1.15 in 1999. Excluding the impact of the gain on PPGx in 2000 and
discontinued operations, non-recurring tax benefits and merger charges in 1999,
our 2000 net income of $32.0 million was 26.3% higher than net income of $25.3
million for 1999.

                                       31
<PAGE>

Year Ended December 31, 1999 Versus Year Ended December 31, 1998

     Net revenue increased $56.1 million, or 22.8%, to $302.5 million in 1999
from $246.4 million in 1998. The Development Group's operations accounted for
99.1% of net revenue for 1999. The Development Group generated net revenue of
$299.8 million, an increase of $54.2 million, or 22.1%, from 1998. The growth in
the Development Group's operations was primarily attributable to an increase in
the size, scope and number of contracts in the global CRO Phase 2 through 4
division. International net revenues increased $7.8 million to $44.8 million in
1999 from $36.3 million in 1998.

     The Discovery Sciences Group generated net revenue of $2.8 million in 1999,
an increase of $1.8 million, or 197.8%, from 1998. The growth in the Discovery
Sciences operations was primarily attributable to an increase in the number of
contracts in the combinatorial chemistry division. In addition, the functional
genomics division earned $0.9 million in revenues in 1999 from a joint
development and license agreement signed during the fourth quarter of 1998.

     Total direct costs increased 21.9% to $155.2 million in 1999 from $127.2
million in 1998 and remained relatively constant as a percentage of net revenue
at 51.3% for 1999 as compared to 51.6% in 1998. Development direct costs
increased to $147.4 million in 1999 as compared to $123.6 million in 1998. The
increased direct cost dollars resulted primarily from increased personnel costs
due to the increase in the size and number of contracts in the global CRO Phase
2 through 4 division. The Development Group's direct costs decreased as a
percentage of related net revenue to 49.1% in 1999 from 50.3% in 1998. This
decrease was principally due to the mix of levels of personnel involved in the
contracts performed, fixed costs being allocated over higher revenues and a
focused effort to control the increase in direct costs, as revenues increased.
The Discovery Sciences Group's direct costs increased to $7.7 million in 1999 as
compared to $3.6 million in 1998. This increase was primarily due to $3.5
million in additional costs for a Phase 2 trial associated with GenuPro in 1999.

     SG&A expenses increased 18.2% to $95.6 million in 1999 from $80.9 million
in 1998. The increase was primarily attributable to an investment in additional
administrative personnel to support expanding operations. As a percentage of net
revenue, SG&A expenses decreased to 31.6% in 1999 from 32.8% in 1998.

     Total depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.0 million, or
16.4%, to $14.8 million in 1999 from $12.8 million in 1998. The increase was
related to the depreciation of the increased investment in property and
equipment due primarily to our growth. Capital expenditures were $23.2 million
in 1999. Additional scientific equipment in our laboratories accounted for
approximately 40.3% of this capital investment, while the enhancement and
expansion of information technology capacities accounted for approximately
28.9%. The remaining capital expenditures were incurred predominantly in
connection with the expansion of existing operations and the opening of new
offices.

     During the first quarter of 1999, we recorded merger costs of $0.2 million
in connection with the acquisition of PPD Medical Communications. These costs
were primarily cash expenses, such as legal and accounting fees, related to this
transaction.

     We recorded an acquired in-process research and development charge of $3.2
million in the second quarter of 1998 as a result of the purchase of a license
to six genitourinary compounds from Eli Lilly & Co. We immediately expensed the
costs of the acquisition of these compounds because the compounds were in the
initial phase of development and had no alternative future use.

     Operating income increased $14.2 million to $36.7 million in 1999, as
compared to $22.5 million in 1998. Excluding merger costs and acquisition costs,
our adjusted operating income of $36.9 million in 1999 was 44.1% higher than
adjusted operating income of $25.6 million in 1998. As a percentage of net
revenue, operating income of 12.1% in 1999 represents an improvement from 9.1%
of net revenue in 1998. These increases were primarily due to our focus on
controlling the increase in both direct and administrative costs, as revenues
increased.

                                       32
<PAGE>

     Net interest and other income increased $0.7 million, or 20.8%, to $4.3
million for 1999 from $3.6 million in 1998. Excluding the gain related to the
sale of the Chicago Center for Clinical Research, net interest and other income
of $4.3 million in 1999 was $1.8 million higher than in 1998. The increase was
primarily the result of the increase in interest income of $1.9 million
partially offset by $0.1 million in net interest expense related to an
investment transaction entered into in the fourth quarter of 1999. We recognized
$1.6 million in interest income related to the notes receivable from the Chicago
Center for Clinical Research and Environ Holdings.

     We recorded a loss from discontinued operations, net of income tax expense,
related to our environmental sciences group, of $0.4 million in 1999, as
compared to income of $4.6 million in 1998. We sold our environmental sciences
group on January 31, 1999.

     Our provision for income taxes increased $2.7 million, or 28.6%, to $12.2
million in 1999, as compared to $9.5 million in 1998. Our effective income tax
rate decreased to 29.6% in 1999 from 36.2% in 1998, primarily due to an
investment transaction entered into in the fourth quarter of 1999, which created
a significant capital gain. We offset this capital gain with a capital loss
carryforward, which had previously been fully reserved. As a result of the
reversal of the valuation allowance on this capital loss carryforward, we
recognized a tax benefit of approximately $3.8 million.

     Net income of $28.5 million in 1999 represents an increase of $7.3 million
over $21.2 million in 1998. Net income per diluted share of $1.15 for 1999
compares to $0.88 in 1998. Excluding the impact of the discontinued operations
in both years, the non-recurring tax benefits and merger charges in 1999 and the
gain on sale of the Chicago Center for Clinical Research and acquisition-related
charges in 1998, our 1999 net income of $25.3 million was 40.8% higher than net
income of $18.0 million for 1998.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

     As of December 31, 2000, we had $76.4 million of cash and cash equivalents
on hand. We have historically funded our operations and growth, including
acquisitions, with cash flow from operations, borrowings and through sales of
our stock. We are exposed to changes in interest rates on cash equivalents,
short-term investments, and amounts outstanding under notes payable and lines of
credit. Our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are invested in
financial instruments with interest rates based on financial market conditions.

     For the year ended December 31, 2000, our operating activities provided
$61.9 million in cash as compared to $50.6 million last year. The increase in
cash flow from operations is primarily due to an increase in our net revenues
and an increase in operating margins as a percentage of net revenues. For the
2000 period, net income of $32.3 million, depreciation and amortization of $17.2
million and the net decrease of $12.9 million in assets and liabilities were
partially offset by the $0.5 million gain on sale of business.

     For the year ended December 31, 2000, our investing activities used $53.0
million in cash. The payment of $30.8 million for several cost method
investments and for the purchase of Pharmazyme for $1.5 million and capital
expenditures of $21.5 million were partially offset by $0.5 million received
from the repayment of a note receivable.

     For the year ended December 31, 2000, our financing activities provided
$8.6 million in cash, as net proceeds from stock option exercises of $9.2
million were partially offset by $0.1 million in net repayments of long-term
debt and $0.4 million in repayments of capital lease obligations.

     Working capital as of December 31, 2000 was $106.9 million, compared to
$105.0 million at December 31, 1999. The increase in working capital was due
primarily to the increase in cash and cash equivalents of $15.2 million in 2000,
partially offset by the increase in other accrued expenses of $10.8 million and
the increase in unearned income of $3.2 million. The number of days revenue
outstanding in accounts receivable and unbilled services, net of unearned
income, also known as DSO, were 51.1 and 64.0 days as of December 31, 2000 and
December 31, 1999, respectively. This decrease is a result of a focused effort
by management on improving the accounts receivable collection process.

     In June 2000, we renegotiated a revolving credit facility for $50.0 million
from First Union National Bank. Indebtedness under the line is unsecured and
subject to traditional covenants relating to financial ratios and tangible net
worth. The unused portion of the loan is available to provide working capital
and for general corporate purposes.

                                       33
<PAGE>

As of December 31, 1999 and 2000, there was no amount outstanding under this
credit facility. This credit facility expires in June 2001, at which time any
outstanding balance is due.

     In August 2000, we renegotiated a credit facility for $50.0 million from
Wachovia Bank, N.A. Indebtedness under the line is unsecured and subject to
traditional covenants relating to financial ratios and tangible net worth. As of
December 31, 1999 and 2000, there was no amount outstanding under this credit
facility. This credit facility expires in August 2001, at which time any
outstanding balance is due.

     In the fourth quarter of 1999, we entered into a purchase and sale of U.S.
Treasury bonds with a face value of $520 million with the same financial
institution. We were required to record these financial instruments at their net
fair value on each reporting date, with any changes in the fair value recorded
as either interest income or interest expense. Net interest expense of $0.3
million was recorded when the bonds matured on May 15, 2000. We recognized
interest expense of approximately $0.1 million on this transaction in 1999. This
investment transaction created a significant capital gain. We offset this
capital gain with a capital loss carryforward, which had previously been fully
reserved. As a result of the reversal of the valuation allowance on this capital
loss carryforward, we recognized a tax benefit of approximately $3.8 million.

     We expect to continue expanding our operations through internal growth and
strategic acquisitions. We expect these activities will be funded from existing
cash, cash flow from operations and borrowings under our credit facilities. We
believe that these sources of liquidity will be sufficient to fund our
operations for the foreseeable future. From time to time, we evaluate potential
acquisitions and other growth opportunities, which might require additional
external financing, and we might seek funds from public or private issuances of
equity or debt securities.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

     In March 2000, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued
Interpretation No. 44, or FIN 44, "Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving
Stock Compensation - an Interpretation of APB 25." This Interpretation clarifies
(a) the definition of employee for purposes of applying Opinion 25, (b) the
criteria for determining whether a plan qualifies as a noncompensatory plan, (c)
the accounting consequence of various modifications to the terms of a previously
fixed stock option or award, and (d) the accounting for an exchange of stock
compensation awards in a business combination. FIN 44 was effective July 1,
2000. The adoption did not have a material impact on our results of operations.

     In December 1999, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101,
"Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements," or SAB 101, which provides
guidance on the recognition, presentation and disclosure of revenue in financial
statements filed with the SEC. SAB 101, as amended by SAB 101A and SAB 101B,
outlines the basic criteria that must be met to recognize revenue and provides
guidance for disclosures related to revenue recognition policies. SAB 101 has
been adopted in our fourth quarter of fiscal year 2000. The adoption of SAB 101
did not have a significant impact on our revenue recognition policies.

     In June 1998, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Investments and Hedging Activities," or SFAS
No. 133. SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for
derivatives and hedging activities and supercedes several existing standards.
SFAS No. 133, as amended by SFAS No. 137 and SFAS No. 138, is effective for all
fiscal quarters of fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. We have performed
an assessment and do not expect that the adoption of SFAS No. 133 in fiscal 2001
will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

Taxes

     Because we conduct operations on a global basis, our effective tax rate has
and will continue to depend upon the geographic distribution of our pretax
earnings among locations with varying tax rates. Our profits are further
impacted by changes in the tax rates of the various taxing jurisdictions. In
particular, as the geographic mix of our pre-tax earnings among various tax
jurisdictions changes, our effective tax rate might vary from period to period.

Potential Liability and Insurance

     Clinical research services involve the testing of new drugs on human
volunteers pursuant to a study protocol. This testing exposes us to the risk of
liability for personal injury or death to patients resulting from, among other
things, possible unforeseen adverse side effects or improper administration of
the new drug. Many of these patients are already seriously ill and are at risk
of further illness or death. We attempt to manage our risk of liability for

                                       34
<PAGE>

personal injury or death to patients from administration of products under study
through measures such as contractual indemnification provisions with clients and
through insurance maintained by clients. The contractual indemnifications
generally do not protect us against our own actions, such as negligence. We
currently maintain professional liability insurance coverage of up to $10.0
million per claim, with an annual aggregate policy limit of $10.0 million.

Potential Volatility of Quarterly Operating Results and Stock Price

     Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated, and we expect
that they will continue to in the future. Factors that could cause these
fluctuations include:

     .    the timing of the initiation, progress or cancellation of significant
          projects;
     .    the mix of products and services sold in a particular period;
     .    the timing and amount of start-up costs incurred in connection with
          the introduction of new products and services;
     .    the timing of our Discovery Sciences Group milestone payments or other
          revenue;
     .    the timing of the opening of new offices;
     .    the timing of other internal expansion costs;
     .    the timing and amount of costs associated with integrating
          acquisitions; and
     .    exchange rate fluctuations between periods.


     Delays and terminations of trials are often the result of actions taken by
our customers or regulatory authorities and are not typically controllable by
us. Because a large percentage of our operating costs are relatively fixed while
revenue is subject to fluctuation, variations in the timing and progress of
large contracts can materially affect our quarterly operating results. We
believe that comparisons of our quarterly financial results are not necessarily
meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance.

     Fluctuations in quarterly results or other factors beyond our control could
affect the market price of our common stock. Such factors include changes in
earnings estimates by analysts, market conditions in our industry, changes in
environmental, pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, and general economic
conditions. Any effect on our common stock could be unrelated to our longer-term
operating performance.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

     We are exposed to foreign currency risk by virtue of our international
operations. We conduct business in several foreign countries. Approximately 15%,
15% and 13% of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1999 and
2000, respectively, were derived from operations outside the United States.
Funds generated by each subsidiary are generally reinvested in the country where
they are earned. The operations in the United Kingdom generated more than 36% of
our revenue from foreign operations during 2000. Accordingly, we have some
exposure to adverse movements in the pound sterling and other foreign
currencies. The United Kingdom has traditionally had a relatively stable
currency compared to our functional currency, the U.S. dollar. We anticipate
that those conditions will persist for at least the next 12 months.

     The vast majority of our contracts are entered into by our United States or
United Kingdom subsidiaries. The contracts entered into by the United States
subsidiaries are almost always denominated in United States dollars. Contracts
between our United Kingdom subsidiaries are generally denominated in pounds
sterling, United States dollar or Euros. In most transactions involving multiple
currencies, contractual provisions either limit or reduce the translation risk.

     We do have some currency risk resulting from the passage of time between
the invoicing of customers under contracts and the ultimate collection of
customer payments against such invoices. If a contract is denominated in a
currency other than the subsidiary's local currency, we recognize a receivable
at the time of invoicing for the local currency equivalent of the foreign
currency invoice amount. Changes in exchange rates from the time the invoice is
prepared and payment from the customer is received will result in our receiving
either more or less in local currency than the local currency equivalent of the
invoice amount at the time the invoice was prepared and the receivable
established. We recognize this difference as a foreign currency translation gain
or loss, as applicable, and report it in other expense (income).

                                      35
<PAGE>

     Changes in exchange rates between the applicable foreign currency and the
U.S. dollar will affect the translation of foreign subsidiaries' financial
results into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial
results. The process by which each foreign subsidiary's financial results are
translated to U.S. dollars is as follows:

       .  income statement accounts are translated at average exchange rates for
          the period;
       .  balance sheet assets and liability accounts are translated at end of
          period exchange rates; and
       .  equity accounts are translated at historical exchange rates.


     Translation of the balance sheet in this manner affects the shareholders'
equity account, referred to as the cumulative translation adjustment account.
This account exists only in the foreign subsidiary's U.S. dollar balance sheet
and is necessary to keep the foreign balance sheet stated in U.S. dollars in
balance. Translation adjustments are reported with accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of shareholders' equity. To
date, cumulative translation adjustments have not been material to our
consolidated financial position. Adjustments might in the future be material to
our financial statements.

     There are no material exchange controls currently in effect in any country
in which we conduct operations on the payment of dividends or otherwise
restricting the transfer of funds outside these countries. Although we perform
services for clients located in a number of foreign jurisdictions, to date, we
have not experienced any difficulties in receiving funds remitted from foreign
countries. However, if any of these jurisdictions imposed or modified existing
exchange control restrictions, the restrictions could have an adverse effect on
our financial condition.

     We are exposed to changes in interest rates on our cash equivalents, short-
term investments and amounts outstanding under notes payable and lines of
credit. We invest our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments in
financial instruments with interest rates based on financial market conditions.

Item 8.        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     The information called for by this Item is set forth herein commencing on
page F-1.

Item 9.        Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting an
               Financial Disclosure

     None.

                                      36
<PAGE>

                                   PART III

     Certain information required by Part III is omitted from this report,
because the Registrant intends to file a definitive proxy statement for its 2001
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 15, 2001 (the "Proxy
Statement") within 120 days after the end of its fiscal year pursuant to
Regulation 14A promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and the information included therein is incorporated herein by
reference to the extent provided below.

Item 10.       Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The information required by Item 10 of Form 10-K concerning the
Registrant's executive officers is set forth under the heading "Executive
Officers" located at the end of Part I of this Form 10-K.

     The other information required by Item 10 of Form 10-K is incorporated by
reference to the information under the headings "Proposal No. 2 - Election of
Directors" and "Other Information-Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance" in the Proxy Statement.

Item 11.       Executive Compensation

     The information required by Item 11 of Form 10-K is incorporated by
reference to the information under the heading "Proposal No. 2 - Election of
Directors -Information About the Board of Directors and Its Committees," "Other
Information- Executive Compensation Tables," "--Director Compensation," "--
Report of the Compensation Committee on Executive Compensation," "--Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation," and "--Performance Graph" in
the Proxy Statement.

Item 12.       Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

     The information required by Item 12 of Form 10-K is incorporated by
reference to the information under the heading "Other Information - Principal
Shareholders" in the Proxy Statement.

Item 13.       Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     None.

                                       37
<PAGE>

                                    PART IV

Item 14.       Exhibits and Reports on Form 8-K

       (a)  Financial Statements

            1. The consolidated financial statements of the Company and its
               subsidiaries filed as part of this Report are listed in the
               attached Index to Consolidated Financial Statements.
            2. The schedule to the consolidated financial statements of the
               Company and its subsidiaries filed as part of this Report is
               listed in the attached Index to Consolidated Financial
               Statements.
            3. The exhibits filed as part of this Report are listed in Item
               14(c) below.

       (b)  Reports on Form 8-K.  None.

       (c)  Exhibits

Exhibit No.             Description
- -----------             -----------
  2.1**           --Plan of Merger to Merge PPD Subsidiary, Inc. with and into
                    Pharmaceutical Product Development Clinical Research Unit,
                    Inc. ("PPD-CRU").
  2.2**           --Plan of Merger to Merge PPD-Europe, Inc. ("PPD Europe") with
                    and into the Registrant.
  2.3*            --Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of June 20,
                    1996, among the Registrant, Wilmington Merger Corp. and
                    Applied Bioscience International Inc.
  2.4*            --Stock and Asset Master Purchase Agreement by and among
                    Huntingdon International Holdings plc, Huntingdon Life
                    Sciences Inc., Applied Bioscience International Inc. and
                    Pharmaco LSR International Inc., dated as of November 1,
                    1995, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to Applied
                    Bioscience International Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K
                    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
                    December 6, 1996.
  2.5*            --Stock Purchase Agreement among Applied Bioscience
                    International Inc., PPD UK Holdings Limited and Environ
                    Holdings Inc. for the acquisition of all the capital stock
                    of APBI Environmental Sciences Group, Inc., Environmental
                    Assessment Group Limited and Environ International Limited,
                    dated January 31, 1999.
  2.6             --Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization dated
                    December 17, 2000, between DNA Sciences, Inc., PIPO
                    Acquisition Corp., and PPGx, Inc.
  2.7             --Series C Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement dated December
                    17, 2000.
  3.1*            --Restated Articles of Incorporation.
  3.2*            --Amended and Restated Bylaws.
  10.8**          --Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. Equity Compensation
                    Plan, effective as of October 30, 1995.
  10.9**          --Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. Stock Option Plan
                    for Non-Employee Directors, effective as of October 31,
                    1995.
  10.10**         --Registration Rights Agreement, dated January 24, 1996, by
                    and among the Registrant and certain of its shareholders.
  10.35**         --Lease, dated January 26, 1994, by and between Michael James
                    Lawton, Jeffrey William Ware, Prudential Nominees Limited
                    and Gabbay Group Limited.
  10.39**         --Lease Agreement, dated as of October 25, 1995, by and
                    between PPD-CRU and Perimeter Park West Associates Limited
                    Partnership.
  10.55**         --Lease made January 23, 1996 between PPD-CRU and Western
                    Center Properties, Inc.
  10.57*          --First Amendment to Registration Rights Agreement.
  10.59*          --First Amendment dated May 20, 1999 to Lease Agreement, dated
                    October 25, 1995, between PPD Development and Perimeter Park
                    West Associates Limited Partnership.
  10.60*          --First, Second and Third Amendments to Lease Agreement, dated
                    March 25, 1996, between PPD and BBC Family Limited
                    Partnership.
  10.61*          --Lease Agreement, dated March 25, 1996, between PPD and BBC
                    Family Limited Partnership.
  10.71*          --Lease Agreement by and between ABI (TX) QRS 12-11, Inc. and
                    Pharmaco LSR International Inc., incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit 10.43 to Applied Bioscience International Inc.'s
                    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                    1995.
  10.81*          --Employment Agreement, dated as of September 26, 1996, by and
                    between Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc., and Fred
                    B. Davenport, Jr.
  10.86*          --Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. Employee Stock
                    Purchase Plan, dated May 15,1997.
  10.87*          --Amendment to Employee Stock Purchase Plan, dated June 21,
                    1997.
  10.88*          --Amendment to Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors,
                    dated May 15, 1997.

                                       38
<PAGE>

  10.89*          --Amendment to Equity Compensation Plan, dated May 15, 1997.
  10.90*          --Employment Agreement, effective July 1, 1997, between
                    Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and Fredric N.
                    Eshelman.
  10.91*          --Note and Loan Agreement, dated August 7, 1997, between
                    Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and Wachovia Bank,
                    N.A.
  10.93*          --Lease Agreement dated July 9, 1997, between Weeks Realty,
                    Inc. and PPD Pharmaco, Inc.
  10.96*          --Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1998 between PPD
                    Pharmaco, Inc. and Patrick C. O'Connor.
  10.97*          --Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1998 between PPD
                    Pharmaco, Inc. and Paul S. Covington.
  10.99*          --Amendment to Employment Agreement dated February 2, 1998
                    between Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and Fred B.
                    Davenport, Jr.
  10.110*         --Amendment to Employee Stock Purchase Plan, dated March 2,
                    1998.
  10.111*         --Employment Agreement dated May 22, 1998 between Subsidiary
                    No. 5, Inc. and Karl B. Thor.
  10.113*         --Note and Loan Agreement, dated June 24, 1998 between
                    Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and First Union
                    National Bank.
  10.114*         --Lease Agreement dated June 26, 1998 between Weeks Realty
                    Limited Partnership and PPD Pharmaco, Inc.
  10.115*         --First Amendment to Loan Agreement dated August 6, 1998,
                    between Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and
                    Wachovia Bank, N.A.
  10.116*         --First Amendment to Lease Agreement dated October 20, 1998,
                    between PPD Pharmaco, Inc. and Weeks Realty, Inc.
  10.117*         --Lease Agreement dated September 15, 1998 between PPD
                    Pharmaco, Inc. and BBC Family Limited Partnership.
  10.118*         --Lease Agreement dated December 16, 1998 between PPD
                    Pharmaco, Inc. and Weeks Realty Limited Partnership.
  10.119*         --Employment Agreement dated January 1, 1999 between
                    Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and David R.
                    Williams.
  10.122*         --Second Amendment to Loan Agreement dated January 30, 1999,
                    between Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and First
                    Union National Bank.
  10.123*         --Second Amendment to Loan Agreement dated January 30, 1999,
                    between Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and
                    Wachovia Bank, N.A.
  10.124*         --Stock Purchase Agreement dated February 1, 1999 between
                    PPGx, Inc. and Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc.
  10.128*         --Credit and Security Agreement dated February 2, 1999,
                    between Applied Bioscience International Inc., Environ
                    Holdings, Inc. and APBI Environmental Sciences Group, Inc.
  10.129*         --First Amendment to Credit and Security Agreement dated March
                    30, 1999, between Applied Bioscience International Inc.,
                    Environ Holdings, Inc. and Environ International Corporation
                    (formerly APBI Environmental Sciences Group, Inc.).
  10.130*         --Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement dated March 30,
                    1999, between First Union National Bank and Applied
                    Bioscience International, Inc.
  10.131*         --Amendment, dated April 14, 1999, to Lease Agreement dated
                    September 15, 1998 between PPD Pharmaco, Inc. and BBC Family
                    Limited Partnership.
  10.132*         --Amendment, dated April 14, 1999, to Lease Agreement dated
                    March 25, 1996 between PPD and BBC Family Limited
                    Partnership.
  10.133*         --Fourth Amendment, dated July 6, 1999, to Lease Agreement
                    dated July 9, 1997 between PPD Development, Inc. (formerly
                    known as PPD Pharmaco, Inc.) and Weeks Realty, L.P.
  10.134*         --Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. Equity Compensation
                    Plan as amended and restated effective May 12, 1999.
  10.136*         --Termination of Employment Agreement dated September 14, 1999
                    between Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and Thomas
                    D'Alonzo.
  10.137*         --Amendment No. 2 and Restatement of Credit and Security
                    Agreement dated November 24, 1999, between Applied
                    Bioscience International Inc., Environ Holdings, Inc. and
                    Environ International Corporation
  10.138*         --Termination of Employment Agreement dated October 7, 1999
                    between PPD Development, Inc. and Joshua S. Baker.
  10.139*         --Third Amendment to Loan Agreement dated November 11, 1999,
                    between Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and
                    Wachovia Bank N.A.

                                       39
<PAGE>

  10.140*         --Employment Agreement dated December 17, 1999 between PPD
                    Development, Inc. and Francis J. Casieri.
  10.142*         --Termination of Employment Agreement dated February 8, 2000
                    between Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and Rudy C.
                    Howard.
  10.143*         --Second Amendment to Loan Agreement dated March 1, 2000,
                    between Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and First
                    Union National Bank.
  10.144*         --Fourth Amendment to Loan Agreement dated February 23, 2000,
                    between Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and
                    Wachovia Bank N.A.
  10.145*         --Third Amendment to Employee Stock Purchase Plan, dated June
                    21, 1997.
  10.146*         --Third Amendment to Loan Agreement dated June 23, 2000,
                    between Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and First
                    Union National Bank.
  10.147*         --Fourth Amendment to Loan Agreement dated June 30, 3000,
                    between Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and First
                    Union National Bank.
  10.148*         --Employment Agreement dated July 20, 2000, between
                    Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and Philippe M.
                    Maitre.
  10.153*         --Fifth Amendment to Loan Agreement dated August 1, 2000,
                    between Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and
                    Wachovia Bank N.A.
  10.154*         --Loan Agreement dated September 22, 2000, by and between
                    PPGx, Inc., Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and
                    Axys Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
  10.155          --Second Amendment to Registration Rights Agreement.
  10.156          --Amendment No. 3 to Credit and Security Agreement dated
                    October 17, 2000, between Applied Bioscience International
                    Inc., Environ Holdings, Inc. and Environ International
                    Corporation and Environ Facility Services Corporation.
  10.157          --Amended and Restated Promissory Note dated October 17, 2000,
                    between Applied Bioscience International Inc., Environ
                    Holdings, Inc. and Environ International Corporation and
                    Environ Facility Services Corporation.
  10.158          --Deferred Compensation Plan dated February 1, 2001.
  10.159          --Fifth Amendment to Loan Agreement dated December 19, 2000,
                    between Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and First
                    Union National Bank.
  10.160          --First Amendment to and Reaffirmation of Subordination and
                    Intercreditor Agreement dated October 17, 2000, between
                    First Union National Bank and Applied Bioscience
                    International, Inc.
  10.161          --Sixth Amendment to Loan Agreement dated December 20, 2000,
                    between Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and
                    Wachovia Bank N.A.
  10.162          --Severance Agreement dated January 1, 2001, between
                    Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and various
                    individuals.
  10.163          --Loan Agreement dated January 24, 2001, by and among
                    Spotlight Health, Inc., Pharmaceutical Product Development,
                    Inc. and First Union National Bank.
  10.164          --First Amendment, dated January 28, 1998, to Lease Agreement
                    dated July 9, 1997 between PPD Development, Inc. (formerly
                    known as PPD Pharmaco, Inc.) and Weeks Realty, L.P.
  10.165          --Second Amendment, dated June 26, 1998, to Lease Agreement
                    dated July 9, 1997 between PPD Development, Inc. (formerly
                    known as PPD Pharmaco, Inc.) and Weeks Realty, L.P.
  10.166          --Third Amendment, dated February 18, 1999, to Lease Agreement
                    dated July 9, 1997 between PPD Development, Inc. (formerly
                    known as PPD Pharmaco, Inc.) and Weeks Realty, L.P.
  10.167          --First Amendment, dated February 28, 2000, to Lease Agreement
                    dated December 16, 1998 between PPD Development, Inc. and
                    Duke-Weeks Realty, L.P.
  10.168          --First Amendment, dated January 1, 2001, to Employment
                    Agreement dated December 17, 1999 between PPD Development,
                    Inc. and Francis J. Casieri.
  21              --Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
  23.1            --Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

*   Previously filed.
**  Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
S-1, as amended (File No. 33-98996).

                                       40
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  Page
                                                                  ----
<S>                                                               <C>
Report of Independent Accountants                                  F-2

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended
    December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000                               F-3

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1999 and 2000       F-4

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the Years
    Ended December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000                         F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended
    December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000                               F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                         F-7
</TABLE>

                                      F-1
<PAGE>

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and its Subsidiaries



     In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the
related consolidated statements of operations, of shareholders' equity and of
cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31,
1999 and 2000, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.  We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.


     As discussed in Note 20, the 1998 consolidated financial statements have
been restated to reflect the March 1999 acquisition of PPD Medical
Communications.



/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP



Raleigh, North Carolina
January 29, 2001

                                      F-2
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
             FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998, 1999, AND 2000
                     (in thousands, except per share data)



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                        1998            1999             2000
                                                                                     -----------      ----------      ----------
                                                                                     As restated
<S>                                                                                  <C>              <C>             <C>
Development revenues, net of subcontractor costs of $91,432, $120,666
  and $120,455, respectively                                                         $   245,527      $  299,769      $  330,516
Discovery sciences revenues, net of subcontractor costs of $48, $57
  and $145, respectively                                                                     927           2,761          14,802
                                                                                     -----------      ----------      ----------
     Net revenue                                                                         246,454         302,530         345,318
                                                                                     -----------      ----------      ----------

Direct costs - Development                                                               123,562         147,439         167,317
Direct costs - Discovery sciences                                                          3,623           7,719           7,390
Selling, general and administrative expenses                                              80,893          95,604         109,831
Depreciation and amortization                                                             12,753          14,842          17,233
Merger costs                                                                                   -             218               -
Acquired in-process research and development costs                                         3,163               -               -
                                                                                     -----------      ----------      ----------
                                                                                         223,994         265,822         301,771
                                                                                     -----------      ----------      ----------
     Operating income                                                                     22,460          36,708          43,547

Interest:
  Income                                                                                   1,617           3,555           5,808
  Expense                                                                                   (421)           (400)           (505)
                                                                                     -----------      ----------      ----------
  Interest income, net                                                                     1,196           3,155           5,303
Gain on sale of PPGx                                                                           -               -             498
Other income, net                                                                          2,392           1,182           1,483

     Income from continuing operations before
       provision for income taxes                                                         26,048          41,045          50,831
     Provision for income taxes                                                            9,448          12,154          18,521
                                                                                     -----------      ----------      ----------
     Income from continuing operations                                                    16,600          28,891          32,310
Income (loss) from operations of discontinued environmental sciences
  segment, net of income taxes of $3,012, $(251) and $0, respectively                      4,614            (395)              -
                                                                                     -----------      ----------      ----------
Net income                                                                           $    21,214      $   28,496      $   32,310
                                                                                     ===========      ==========      ==========

Income from continuing operations per share:
     Basic                                                                           $      0.69      $     1.18      $     1.29
                                                                                     ===========      ==========      ==========
     Diluted                                                                         $      0.69      $     1.16      $     1.28
                                                                                     ===========      ==========      ==========

Income (loss) from discontinued operations per share:
     Basic                                                                           $      0.19      $    (0.02)     $        -
                                                                                     ===========      ==========      ==========
     Diluted                                                                         $      0.19      $    (0.02)     $        -
                                                                                     ===========      ==========      ==========

Net income per share:
     Basic                                                                           $      0.88      $     1.16      $     1.29
                                                                                     ===========      ==========      ==========
     Diluted                                                                         $      0.88      $     1.15      $     1.28
                                                                                     ===========      ==========      ==========

Weighted average number of common shares outstanding:
     Basic                                                                                23,991          24,566          24,965
     Dilutive effect of stock options                                                        169             287             212
                                                                                     -----------      ----------      ----------
     Diluted                                                                              24,160          24,853          25,177
                                                                                     ===========      ==========      ==========
</TABLE>
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                      F-3
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                         CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                       AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1999 AND 2000
                       (in thousands, except share data)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    Assets

                                                                                        1999           2000
                                                                                     ----------     ----------
<S>                                                                                  <C>            <C>
Current assets
  Cash and cash equivalents                                                           $  61,251         $   76,411
  Accounts receivable and unbilled services, net                                        114,753            118,400
  Investigator advances                                                                   2,069              4,104
  Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                              16,302             12,185
  Current maturities of note receivable                                                     500                500
  Deferred tax asset                                                                      4,012              2,133
                                                                                      ---------         ----------
     Total current assets                                                               198,887            213,733

Property and equipment, net                                                              52,282             60,240
Goodwill, net                                                                             9,437              9,034
Notes receivable, long-term portion                                                      19,500             19,000
Investments                                                                               5,686             38,755
Other assets                                                                              2,911              4,153
                                                                                      ---------         ----------
     Total assets                                                                     $ 288,703         $  344,915
                                                                                      =========         ==========

                      Liabilities aNd Shareholders' Equity

Current liabilities
  Accounts payable                                                                    $  10,103         $    8,772
  Payables to investigators                                                               5,916              5,538
  Other accrued expenses                                                                 27,471             38,248
  Unearned income                                                                        50,213             53,385
  Accrued income taxes                                                                        -                273
  Current maturities of long-term debt and capital lease obligations                        211                614
                                                                                      ---------         ----------
     Total current liabilities                                                           93,914            106,830

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations, less current maturities                       359              1,353
Deferred rent and other                                                                   1,966              2,789
                                                                                      ---------         ----------
     Total liabilities                                                                   96,239            110,972

Commitments and contingencies (Notes 11 and 15)

Shareholders' equity
  Common stock, $0.10 par value, 95,000,000 shares authorized;
     24,628,870 and 25,334,763 shares issued and outstanding,
     respectively                                                                         2,463              2,533
  Paid-in capital                                                                       134,029            145,508
  Retained earnings                                                                      58,697             91,007
  Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                                   (2,725)            (5,105)
                                                                                      ---------         ----------
     Total shareholders' equity                                                         192,464            233,943
                                                                                      ---------         ----------
     Total liabilities and shareholders' equity                                       $ 288,703         $  344,915
                                                                                      =========         ==========
</TABLE>


  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                      F-4
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
             FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998, 1999, AND 2000
                                (in thousands)




<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                                                                           Accumulated
                                                                                           Comprehensive      Other
                                                  Common Shares        Paid-in   Retained     Income       Comprehensive
                                               Shares    Par Value     Capital   Earnings     (Loss)       Income (Loss)  Total
                                               ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                            <C>       <C>         <C>         <C>       <C>             <C>            <C>
Balance December 31, 1997 (as restated)        23,683     $ 2,368     $ 117,639   $ 9,807                   $  (482)      $ 129,332
Net income                                                                         21,214      $ 21,214                      21,214
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Reclassification adjustment for net gain
   included in net income                                                                          (167)                       (167)
  Translation adjustments                                                                            78                          78
                                                                                               --------
  Other comprehensive loss                                                                          (89)        (89)
                                                                                               --------
Comprehensive income                                                                            $21,125
                                                                                               ========
Compensation expense related to
 issuance of stock options                                                  198                                                 198
Issuance of common shares for exercise
 of stock options and employee stock
 purchase plan                                    626          63         7,822                                               7,885
Income tax benefit from exercise of
  stock options                                                           1,049                                               1,049
Dividends paid to ATP shareholders                                                   (868)                                     (868)
Repayment from shareholders                                                            48                                        48
                                              -------------------------------------------                   -----------------------
Balance December 31, 1998 (As Restated)        24,309       2,431       126,708    30,201                      (571)        158,769
Net income                                                                         28,496       $28,496                      28,496
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Translation adjustments                                                                        (2,154)     (2,154)         (2,154)
                                                                                                -------
Comprehensive income                                                                            $26,342
                                                                                                =======
Issuance of common shares for exercise
 of stock options and employee stock
 purchase plan                                    320          32         6,168                                               6,200
Income tax benefit from exercise of
 stock options                                                            1,153                                               1,153
                                               ------------------------------------------                   -----------------------
Balance December 31, 1999                      24,629       2,463       134,029    58,697                    (2,725)        192,464
Net income                                                                         32,310       $32,310                      32,310
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Translation adjustments                                                                        (2,380)     (2,380)         (2,380)
                                                                                                -------
Comprehensive income                                                                            $29,930
                                                                                                =======
Issuance of common shares for exercise
 of stock options and employee stock
 purchase plan                                    706          70         9,098                                               9,168
Income tax benefit from exercise of
 stock options                                                            2,381                                               2,381
                                               ------------------------------------------                   -----------------------
Balance December 31, 2000                      25,335      $2,533      $145,508   $91,007                   $(5,105)       $233,943
                                              =======      ======      ========   =======                   =======        ========
</TABLE>

  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                      F-5
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
             FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998, 1999 AND 2000
                                (in thousands)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     1998       1999       2000
                                                                   --------   --------   --------
                                                                 As restated
<S>                                                              <C>         <C>         <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
 Net income                                                        $ 21,214   $ 28,496   $ 32,310
 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
   operating activities:
   Depreciation and amortization                                     14,647     15,040     17,233
   Provision for doubtful accounts                                    1,031        409      1,060
   Acquired in-process research and development                       3,163          -          -
   Gain on sale of business                                          (1,071)         -       (498)
   Deferred income taxes                                              1,409        294      1,879
   Loss on disposition of property and equipment, net                    55          -         34
   Gain on sale of investments                                         (174)         -          -
   Change in operating assets and liabilities:
     Accounts receivable and unbilled services, net                 (30,079)    (6,420)    (4,708)
     Prepaid expenses and investigator advances                        (394)    (1,987)    (2,519)
     Current income taxes                                            (2,088)    (4,114)     6,190
     Other assets                                                     1,452     (3,962)      (761)
     Accounts payable and other accrued expenses                      7,952      6,428      8,927
     Payable to investigators                                         1,066        712       (379)
     Unearned income                                                  7,199     15,704      3,172
                                                                   --------   --------   --------
         Net cash provided by operating activities                   25,382     50,600     61,940
                                                                   --------   --------   --------
Cash flows from investing activities:
   Purchases of property and equipment                              (22,434)   (23,233)   (21,515)
   Net cash received from sale of businesses                          5,285      3,421          -
   Net cash paid for acquisition of in-process
     research and development costs                                  (3,163)         -          -
   Proceeds from sale of property and equipment                           5         31        225
   Proceeds from sale of marketable securities                        8,000          -          -
   Cash received from repayment of note receivable                        -        500        500
   Purchases of investments                                               -     (3,500)   (30,755)
   Net cash paid for acquisitions                                    (1,829)         -     (1,500)
                                                                   --------   --------   --------
         Net cash used in investing activities                      (14,136)   (22,781)   (53,045)
                                                                   --------   --------   --------
Cash flows from financing activities:
   Proceeds from long-term debt                                       1,848        982          -
   Principal repayments on long-term debt                            (1,483)    (6,406)       (94)
   Cash dividends paid                                                 (868)         -          -
   Repayment of capital leases obligation                                 -        (11)      (429)
   Repayment from shareholders                                           48          -          -
   Proceeds from exercise of stock options and employee
     stock purchase plan                                              7,885      6,200      9,168
                                                                   --------   --------   --------
         Net cash provided by financing activities                    7,430        765      8,645
                                                                   --------   --------   --------
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents             78     (2,154)    (2,380)
                                                                   --------   --------   --------
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents                            18,754     26,430     15,160
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the year                     16,067     34,821     61,251
                                                                   --------   --------   --------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of the year                         $ 34,821   $ 61,251   $ 76,411
                                                                   ========   ========   ========
</TABLE>

  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                      F-6
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                    (in thousands, except per share data)

1.   Summary of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies:

Nature of Business

     Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively
the "Company") provide a broad range of research and development and consulting
services in the development and discovery sciences segments.  In the development
segment, the Company provides worldwide clinical research and development of
pharmaceutical products and medical devices, biostatistical analysis and
analytical laboratory services.  The discovery sciences services include target
identification and validation, compound creation, screening and compound
selection.  The Company provides services under contract to clients in the
pharmaceutical, general chemical, agrochemical, biotechnology and other
industries.  In addition, the Company performs discovery research on certain
compounds for which the Company holds a license.  The Company markets its
development services primarily in the United States and Europe.  The Company's
discovery revenues have all been generated in the United States to date.

     Prior to selling its environmental sciences segment on January 31, 1999
(see Note 4), the Company also provided environmental sciences services.
Environmental sciences services included assessment and management of chemical
and environmental health risk, site investigation and remediation planning and
litigation support.  In addition to the industries mentioned above, the
environmental sciences segment also marketed services to clients in the
industrial, manufacturing and oil and gas industries.  The environmental
sciences segment marketed its services primarily in the United States and
Europe.

Principles of Consolidation

     The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts and
results of operations of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.  All
significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.

Merger Costs and Special Charges

     The Company recorded merger costs of $218 in connection with the
acquisition of ATP, Inc. (PPD Medical Communications) in 1999 (see Note 2).
This acquisition was accounted for using the pooling of interests method of
accounting.  This cost was primarily transaction expenses related to this
pooling transaction.

Acquired In-process Research and Development Costs

     The Company recorded an acquired in-process research and development charge
of $3,163 in the second quarter of 1998 related to the purchase of a license to
six genitourinary compounds from Eli Lilly & Co.  The Company immediately
expensed the costs of the acquisition of these compounds because they were in
the initial phase of development at the date of the acquisition and had no
alternative future use.

Revenue Recognition

     The Company records revenues from fixed-price contracts on a percentage-of-
completion basis.  Revenues from time-and-material contracts are recognized as
hours are accumulated multiplied by the billable rates for each contract.
Revenues are recorded net of reimbursement received from clients for pass-
through expenses, which generally include subcontractor costs that consist of
investigator fees, travel and certain other contract costs.

                                      F-7
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                    (in thousands, except per share data)


1.   Summary of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies (Continued):

Revenue Recognition (Continued)

     If it is determined that a loss will result from the performance of a
fixed-price contract, the entire amount of the estimated loss is charged against
income in the period in which such determination is made.  Clients generally may
terminate a study at any time, which may cause unplanned periods of excess
capacity and reduced revenues and earnings.  To offset the effects of early
terminations of significant contracts, the Company attempts to negotiate the
payment of an early termination fee as part of the original contract.

     In December 1999, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101,
"Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements," ("SAB 101"), which provides
guidance on the recognition, presentation and disclosures of revenue in
financial statements filed with the SEC.  SAB 101, as amended by SAB 101A and
SAB 101B, outlines the basic criteria that must be met to recognize revenue and
provides guidance for disclosures related to revenue recognition policies.  SAB
101 has been adopted in the Company's fourth quarter of fiscal year 2000.  The
adoption of SAB 101 did not have a significant impact on the Company's revenue
recognition policies.

     A portion of the Company's revenue is derived from sale of software
licenses as well as support and maintenance, training and consulting services.
The Company adopted American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA")
Statement of Position ("SOP") No. 97-2, "Software Revenue Recognition," as
amended by SOP No. 98-4 effective January 1, 1998.  The adoption did not have a
material effect on the timing of the Company's revenue recognition or cause
changes to its revenue recognition policies.

     In December 1998, the AICPA issued Statement of Position No. 98-9,
"Modification of SOP No. 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, with Respect to
Certain Transactions" ("SOP No. 98-9").  SOP No. 98-9 amends SOP No. 97-2 to
require recognition of revenue using the "residual method" in circumstances
outlined in SOP No. 98-9.  Under the residual method, revenue is recognized as
follows:  (1) the total fair value of undelivered elements, as indicated by
vendor-specific objective evidence, is deferred and subsequently recognized in
accordance with the relevant sections of SOP No. 97-2 and (2) the difference
between the total arrangement fee and the amount deferred for the undelivered
elements is recognized as revenue related to the delivered elements.  SOP No.
98-9 is effective for transactions entered into in fiscal years beginning after
March 15, 1999.  The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's
financial position or statement of operations.

     Revenue from sale of software licenses totaled $100, $313 and $166 during
the years ended December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000, respectively.  Revenue from
software licenses is recognized when there is evidence of an arrangement, the
product has been delivered, fees are fixed and determinable and collection of
the related receivable is probable.  Support and maintenance revenue totaled
$29, $90 and $137 during the years ended December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000,
respectively.  Support and maintenance revenue is deferred and recognized
ratably over the service period.  Royalty revenue totaled $889, $1,821 and
$1,114 during the years ended December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000, respectively.
Royalty revenue is comprised of royalties received from the sale of software
licenses and product maintenance by distributors of the Company's products.
Royalty revenue is recognized when the Company is notified by the distributor of
the royalty and the amount is fixed and determinable.

     Discovery sciences revenues also include revenue from sales of technology
license fees.  Nonrefundable license fees received at the initiation of license
agreements for which the Company has an ongoing research and development
commitment are deferred and recognized ratably over the period of the related
research and development.  Nonrefundable license fees received from license
agreements for which the Company is not obligated to perform future research and
development services are recognized upon delivery of the technology.

                                      F-8
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                    (in thousands, except per share data)


1.   Summary of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies (Continued):

Cash and Cash Equivalents

     Cash and cash equivalents consist of unrestricted cash accounts, which are
not subject to withdrawal restrictions or penalties, and all highly liquid
investments with a maturity of three months or less at the date of purchase.

     Supplemental cash flow information consists of the following:

                                               Years Ended December 31,
                                            -----------------------------
                                              1998       1999       2000
                                            -------    -------    -------
                                          As restated
Cash paid for interest                      $   427    $   319    $   565
                                            =======    =======    =======
Cash paid for income taxes, net             $12,628    $15,972    $11,252
                                            =======    =======    =======
Assets acquired under capital leases        $     -    $   349    $ 2,006
                                            =======    =======    =======
Investment acquired for PPGx stock          $     -    $     -    $17,005
                                            =======    =======    =======

Financial Instruments

     In the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company entered into a short sale and
repurchase of U.S. Treasury bonds with a face value of $520,000.  This
transaction had a maturity date of May 15, 2000.  The Company is required to
record these financial instruments at their net fair value on each reporting
date, with any changes in the fair value recorded as either interest income or
interest expense.  Net interest expense of $100 and $349 has been recognized
related to this transaction at December 31, 1999 and 2000, respectively.  The
Company was required to make a margin deposit of $2,600 related to this
transaction.

Investigator Payments

     Billings and payments to investigators are based on predetermined
contractual agreements that may differ from the accrual of the related expense.
Investigator expenses are recognized based upon the status of the work completed
as a percentage of the total procedures required under the contract or based on
patient enrollment over the term of the contract.  Payments made in excess of
the accrued expenses are classified as investigator advances, and accrued
expenses in excess of amounts paid are classified as payables to investigators
in the consolidated balance sheets.  Contracted physician costs are considered a
pass-through expense and are recorded as a reduction to revenues in the
consolidated statements of operations.

Property and Equipment

     Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and
amortization. Depreciation is recorded using the straight-line method, based on
estimated useful lives of 20 to 40 years for buildings, five to 12 years for
laboratory equipment, three to five years for computers and related equipment,
and four to 10 years for furniture and equipment.  Leasehold improvements are
amortized over the shorter of the respective lives of the leases or the useful
lives of the improvements.  Property under capital leases is amortized over the
life of the lease or the service life, whichever is shorter.

Internal Use Software

     The Company accounts for internal use software in accordance with the
provisions of AICPA Statement of Position No. 98-1, "Accounting for the Costs of
Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use," which requires
certain direct costs and interest costs that are incurred during the application
stage of development to be capitalized and amortized over the useful life of the
software.

                                      F-9
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                    (in thousands, except per share data)


1.   Summary of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies (Continued):

Capitalized Software Costs

     Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 86, "Accounting for the
Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased or Otherwise Marketed," requires
the capitalization of certain software development costs once technological
feasibility has been established.  The Company considers that technological
feasibility has been established once a working model of a product has been
established and tested.  The establishment of technological feasibility and the
ongoing assessment of recoverability of capitalized software development costs
require considerable judgement by management concerning certain external factors
including, but not limited to, technological feasibility, anticipated future
gross revenue, estimated economic life and changes in software and hardware
technologies.  To date, the Company has not capitalized any software development
costs, as amounts incurred subsequent to the establishment of technological
feasibility have not been material.  Prior to the creation of a working model,
the Company expenses these costs.

Goodwill

     The excess of the purchase price of the businesses acquired over the fair
value of net tangible assets and identifiable intangibles and acquired in-
process research and development costs at the date of the acquisitions has been
assigned to goodwill.  Goodwill is being amortized over periods of 10 to 25
years.  Goodwill is presented net of accumulated amortization at December 31,
1999 and 2000 of $5,064 and $5,573, respectively.  The amortization charges for
each of the three years ended December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000 were $1,235,
$1,005 and $925, respectively.

Investments

     Investments consist of equity investments in private entities for which
fair values are not readily determinable.  These investments are carried at cost
and are subject to write-down for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these investments may not be
recoverable.

Other Assets

     Other assets are comprised of other intangible assets and a net long-term
deferred tax asset.  Other intangible assets are being amortized over periods of
three to ten years.  See Note 9.

Realizability of Carrying Value of Long-lived Assets

     The Company is required to review long-lived assets for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset
may not be recoverable, in accordance with the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-
Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of".  Accordingly, when
indicators of impairment are present, the Company evaluates the carrying value
of property, plant and equipment and intangibles, including goodwill, in
relation to the operating performance and estimates of future undiscounted cash
flows of the underlying business and recognizes an impairment, if necessary, to
state property, plant and equipment and intangibles at their fair value.  No
such impairment was necessary during any of the three years ended December 31,
1998, 1999 and 2000.

Unbilled Services and Unearned Income

     In general, prerequisites for billings are established by contractual
provisions, including predetermined payment schedules, the achievement of
contract milestones or submission of appropriate billing detail.  Unbilled
services arise when services have been rendered but clients have not been
billed.  Similarly, unearned income represents amounts billed in excess of
revenue recognized.

                                      F-10
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                    (in thousands, except per share data)

1.   Summary of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies (Continued):

Income Taxes

     Income taxes are computed using the asset and liability approach that
requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected
future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the Company's
financial statements or tax returns.  In estimating future tax consequences, the
Company generally considers all expected future events other than enactment of
changes in tax law or rates.  If it is more likely than not that some portion or
all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance is
recorded.

Advertising Costs

     Advertising costs are charged to operations as incurred.  Advertising costs
were approximately $1,622, $1,206 and $2,048 for the years ended December 31,
1998, 1999 and 2000, respectively.

Research and Development Costs

     Research and development costs are charged to operations as incurred.
Research and development costs were approximately $2,738,  $2,638 and $2,791 for
the years ended December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000, respectively.

Concentration of Credit Risk

     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 105, "Disclosure of
Information about Financial Instruments with Off-Balance-Sheet Risk and
Financial Instruments with Concentrations of Credit Risk", requires disclosure
of information about financial instruments with off-balance-sheet risk and
financial instruments with concentrations of credit risk.  Financial
instruments, which subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk, consist
principally of accounts receivable, cash equivalents and U.S. Treasury Bonds.
See Note 16.

     The Company's clients are primarily pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies.  One customer accounted for 10.7% of consolidated net revenue in
2000.  These revenues were derived from the Company's development segment.  No
single client accounted for more than 10% of the Company's net revenue in 1998
or 1999.  Concentrations of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable are
limited due to the large number of clients comprising the Company's client base.
Ongoing credit evaluations of clients' financial condition are performed and,
generally, no collateral is required.  The Company maintains reserves for
potential credit losses and such losses, in the aggregate, have not exceeded
management's estimates.

     The Company's cash equivalents consist principally of commercial paper.
Certain bank deposits may at times be in excess of the FDIC insurance limit.
Based on the nature of the financial instruments and/or historical realization
of these financial instruments, management believes they bear minimal risk.

Translation of Foreign Financial Statements

     Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, where the functional currency
is the local currency, are translated into U.S. dollars at the rate of exchange
at each reporting date.  Income and expenses are translated at the average rates
of exchange prevailing during the month in which a transaction occurs.  Gains or
losses from translating foreign currency financial statements are recorded in
other comprehensive income.  The cumulative translation adjustment included in
other comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000
totaled $78, $(2,154) and $(2,380), respectively.  Foreign currency transaction
gains and losses are included in other income.

     Funds generated by each subsidiary of the Company are generally reinvested
in the country where they are earned.

                                      F-11
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                    (in thousands, except per share data)

1.   Summary of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies (Continued):

Earnings Per Share

     The computation of basic income per share information is based on the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year.  The
computation of diluted income per share information is based on the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding during the year plus the effects of
any dilutive common stock equivalents.

Stock-Based Compensation

     The Company accounts for stock-based compensation based on the provisions
of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees" ("APB No. 25"), which states that no compensation expense is recorded
for stock options or other stock-based awards to employees that are granted with
an exercise price equal to or above the estimated fair value per share of the
Company's common stock on the grant date.  In the event that stock options are
granted with an exercise price below the estimated fair value of the Company's
common stock at the grant date, the difference between the fair value of the
Company's common stock and the exercise price of the stock option is recorded as
deferred compensation.  Deferred compensation is amortized to compensation
expense over the vesting period of the stock option.  The Company has adopted
the disclosure requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123"), which requires
compensation expense to be disclosed based on the fair value of the options
granted at the date of the grant.  See Note 12.

     In March 2000, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
Interpretation No. 44, ("FIN 44"), "Accounting for Certain Transactions
Involving Stock Compensation - an Interpretation of APB 25." This Interpretation
clarifies (a) the definition of employee for purposes of applying Opinion 25,
(b) the criteria for determining whether a plan qualifies as a noncompensatory
plan, (c) the accounting consequence of various modifications to the terms of a
previously fixed stock option or award, and (d) the accounting for an exchange
of stock compensation awards in a business combination. FIN 44 was effective
July 1, 2000. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's
results of operations.

Comprehensive Income

     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130, "Reporting
Comprehensive Income" ("SFAS No. 130") requires the Company to display an amount
representing comprehensive income for the year in a financial statement which is
displayed with the same prominence as other financial statements.  The Company
has elected to present this information in the Statements of Shareholders'
Equity.

Derivative Investments

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Investments
and Hedging Activities," (SFAS No. 133").  SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting
and reporting standards for derivatives and hedging activities and supercedes
several existing standards.  SFAS No. 133, as amended by SFAS No. 137 and SFAS
No. 138, is effective for all fiscal quarters of fiscal years beginning after
June 15, 2000.  The Company has performed an assessment and does not expect that
the adoption of SFAS No. 133 in fiscal 2001 will have a material impact on the
consolidated financial statements.

Use of Estimates

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications

     Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2000
presentation.

                                     F-12
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                    (in thousands, except per share data)


2.   Acquisitions:

Poolings

     In March 1999, the Company acquired PPD Medical Communications (formerly
ATP, Inc.), a health information services company.  PPD Medical Communications
provides customized inbound and outbound telecommunications programs targeting
consumers and health care providers.  The Company acquired all of the
outstanding stock of ATP, Inc. in exchange for issuance of approximately 876
shares of the Company's common stock.  Outstanding ATP, Inc. options were
exchanged for options to acquire approximately 216 shares of the Company's
common stock.  This acquisition was accounted for using the pooling of interests
method.  Accordingly, the Company's financial statements include the results of
PPD Medical Communications for all periods presented (see Note 20).  In 1998,
PPD Medical Communications paid their shareholders a cash dividend totaling
$868.  If PPD Medical Communications had become part of the Company prior to
1999, the Company would have recorded an additional $555 in income tax expense
on a pro forma basis related to PPD Medical Communications in 1998 (since PPD
Medical Communications was an S-Corp prior to the acquisition by PPD), resulting
in pro forma net income of $20,659.

     The following information presents certain income statement data of the
separate companies for the periods preceding the acquisition:


                                         1998
                                       --------
     Net revenue:
         PPD                           $235,553
         PPD Medical Communications      10,901
                                       --------
         Total                         $246,454
                                       ========
     Net income:
         PPD                           $ 19,769
         PPD Medical Communications       1,445
                                       --------
         Total                         $ 21,214
                                       ========

     There were no material transactions between PPD and PPD Medical
Communications prior to the acquisition.  The effects of conforming PPD Medical
Communications' accounting policies to those of PPD were not material.

Purchases

     In January 1998, the Company acquired two environmental consulting
businesses for a total of $1,006 in cash and potential for the former owners to
earn an additional amount depending on the profitability of the businesses for a
certain period after the acquisition.  In connection with these acquisitions,
the Company recorded approximately $900 in goodwill.  These businesses were
disposed of with the rest of the environmental sciences segment on January 31,
1999.  See Note 4.

3.   Sale of Business:

     In February 1998, the Company, through its subsidiary Clinix International
Inc., sold substantially all of the assets of the Chicago Center for Clinical
Research ("CCCR").  The consideration received by the Company for CCCR totaled
approximately $7,785, which was comprised of $5,285 in cash and a promissory
note of $2,500 payable over five years.  The sale resulted in a gain of
approximately $1,071 that was recognized as other income during the first
quarter of 1998.  As part of the sales agreement, the Company continued to
provide CCCR with certain clinical and administrative services for an agreed-
upon amount through the first quarter of 1999.

                                      F-13
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                    (in thousands, except per share data)


4.   Discontinued Operations:

     Effective January 31, 1999, the Company sold its environmental sciences
segment to Environ Holdings, Inc., a new company formed by the management of the
environmental sciences segment, for total consideration of approximately $26,244
in a management buyout.  The Company received cash of $1,244, a four-year note
for $7,000 and a 12-year note for $18,000 (see Note 7).   The sale resulted in
no gain or loss because the sales price was equal to the book value of the net
assets sold at the date of the sale.  In the first quarter of 1999, the Company
received full pre-payment of the four-year note.

     The operating results of the environmental sciences segment for the years
ended December 31, 1998 and 1999 were as follows:

                                                Years Ended December 31,
                                                ------------------------
                                                    1998         1999
                                                -----------   ----------
               Net revenues                     $    50,056   $    3,866
               Income (loss) from operations          7,627         (629)
               Net (loss) income                      4,614         (395)



5.   Accounts Receivable and Unbilled Services:
     Accounts receivable and unbilled services consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                       December 31,
                                                                                 --------------------
                                                                                   1999        2000
                                                                                 --------    --------
<S>                                                                              <C>         <C>
     Trade:
           Billed                                                                $ 70,005    $ 81,584
           Unbilled                                                                45,814      38,770
           Reserve for doubtful accounts                                           (1,066)     (1,954)
                                                                                 --------    --------
                                                                                 $114,753    $118,400
                                                                                 ========    ========
</TABLE>

     Change in reserve for doubtful accounts consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     Years Ended December 31,
                                                                                --------------------------------
                                                                                   1998        1999        2000
                                                                                ---------    --------    -------
                                                                                As restated
<S>                                                                             <C>         <C>          <C>
           Balance at beginning of year                                          $  1,527    $  2,042     $1,066
           Additions charged to costs and expenses                                  1,031         409      1,060
           Deductions                                                                (516)       (516)      (172)
           Sale of environmental sciences segment                                       -        (869)         -
                                                                                 --------    --------     ------
           Balance at end of year                                                $  2,042    $  1,066     $1,954
                                                                                 ========    ========     ======
</TABLE>

                                      F-14
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                    (in thousands, except per share data)

6.   Property and Equipment:
     Property and equipment, stated at cost, consisted of the following:

                                                            December 31,
                                                       -------------------
                                                         1999       2000
                                                       --------   --------

     Land                                              $  1,159   $  1,257
     Buildings and leasehold improvements                15,000     18,748
     Construction in progress and asset deposits          2,216      2,661
     Furniture and equipment                             48,765     57,495
     Computer equipment and software                     43,325     46,990
                                                       --------   --------
                                                        110,465    127,151
     Less accumulated depreciation and amortization     (58,183)   (66,911)
                                                       --------   --------
                                                       $ 52,282   $ 60,240
                                                       ========   ========


     The annual depreciation and amortization charges on property and equipment
for each of the three years ended December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000 were $13,073,
$13,936 and $16,291, respectively.

     The Company had property and equipment under capital leases at December 31,
1999 and 2000 of $374 and $1,915, respectively.

7.   Notes Receivable:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     Notes receivable consisted of the following:                                 December 31,
                                                                              -----------------
                                                                                1999      2000
                                                                              -------   -------
<S>                                                                           <C>       <C>
     Note receivable from sale of CCCR                                        $ 2,000   $ 1,500
     Note receivable from sale of environmental sciences segment               18,000    18,000
                                                                              -------   -------
                                                                               20,000    19,500
     Less current maturities                                                     (500)     (500)
                                                                              -------   -------
                                                                              $19,500   $19,000
                                                                              =======   =======
</TABLE>

     The note receivable related to the sale of CCCR (see Note 3) bears interest
at a rate of 10% and will be received over a five-year period, which began on
February 27, 1998, in equal annual payments.

     The note receivable related to the sale of the Company's environmental
sciences segment (see Note 4) will be received over twelve years.  The first
four years are interest-only payments with the first payment received on
December 31, 1999.  Principal payments commence on December 31, 2003.  The note
bears interest at a rate of 8%.

                                      F-15
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                     (in thousands, except per share data)

8.   Investments:
     Investments consisted of the following:
                                                                December 31,
                                                            ----------------
                                                             1999      2000
                                                            ------   -------
     Investment in DNA Sciences, Inc.                       $    -   $32,005
     Investment in PPGx                                      4,186         -
     Investment in Spotlight Health                              -     5,000
     Investment in DAS                                       1,500     1,500
     Investment in CancerConsultants.com, Inc.                   -       250
                                                            ------   -------
                                                            $5,686   $38,755
                                                            ======   =======

     In February 1999, the Company invested in PPGx, an entity formed together
with Axys Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Axys") to pursue the business of
pharmacogenomics.  The Company contributed $1,500, the net assets of Intek, and
assigned the rights to a certain software license from Axys for an 18.2%
ownership interest in PPGx. In December 2000, the Company exercised its option
to increase its ownership to 50% for $5,900 and subsequently sold its investment
in PPGx to DNA Sciences, Inc.  for 1,479 shares of DNA Sciences, Inc. Series D
preferred stock.  As a result of this transaction, the Company recognized a gain
from the sale of PPGx of $498.  In conjunction with this transaction, the
Company repaid a $4,560 loan on PPGx's behalf and forgave a note receivable from
PPGx in the amount of $1,065.  In December 2000, the Company purchased 1,478
shares of DNA Sciences, Inc. Series C preferred stock for $15,000.  At December
31, 2000, the Company owned 1,478 shares of DNA Sciences, Inc. Series C
preferred stock and 1,479 shares of DNA Sciences, Inc. Series D preferred stock
representing an 11.2% ownership.

     In April 2000, the Company purchased 1,000 shares of Spotlight Health
Series C convertible preferred stock, which represent approximately 8.4%
ownership of Spotlight Health as of December 31, 2000.

     The Company owns 600 shares of Digital Arts and Sciences ("DAS") Series D
preferred stock, which represent approximately 6.8% ownership of DAS as of
December 31, 1999 and 2000.

     In December 2000, the Company purchased 333 shares and warrants to purchase
167 shares of CancerConsultants.com, Inc. common stock at an exercise price of
$1.25, which represented approximately 2.8% ownership as of December 31, 2000.
The Company's investment in CancerConsultants.com, Inc. is being accounted for
using the cost method.

9.   Other Assets:
     Other assets consisted of the following:
                                                                 December 31,
                                                            --------------------
                                                             1999          2000
                                                            ------        ------
     Long-term deferred tax asset                           $1,280        $2,404
     Intangible and other assets, net of accumulated
       amortization of $1,106 and $1,054, respectively       1,631         1,749
                                                            ------        ------
                                                            $2,911        $4,153
                                                            ======        ======

     The annual amortization charges on intangible assets for each of the three
years ended December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000 were $89, $153 and $17,
respectively.

                                      F-16
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                     (in thousands, except per share data)

10.  Other Accrued Expenses:
     Other accrued expenses consisted of the following:

                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                           ---------------------
                                                             1999          2000
                                                           -------       -------
     Accrued salaries, wages, benefits and related costs   $21,599       $28,307
     Other                                                   5,872         9,941
                                                           -------       -------
                                                           $27,471       $38,248
                                                           =======       =======

11.  Long-term Debt And Lease Obligations:
     Long-term debt consisted of the following:
                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                           --------------------
                                                             1999         2000
                                                           -------      -------
     Equipment leases at interest rates up to 7.0%         $   374      $ 1,915
     Various notes at interest rates up to 7.5%                196           52
                                                           -------      -------
                                                               570        1,967
     Less current maturities                                  (211)        (614)
                                                           -------      -------
                                                           $   359      $ 1,353
                                                           =======      =======


     In June 2000, the Company renegotiated a $50,000 revolving credit facility
with First Union National Bank. Indebtedness under the line is unsecured and
subject to traditional covenants relating to financial ratios and tangible net
worth.  The unused portion of the loan is available to provide working capital
and for general corporate purposes.  As of December 31, 1999 and 2000, there was
no amount outstanding under this credit facility.  This credit facility expires
in June 2001, at which time any outstanding balance is due.

     In August 2000, the Company renegotiated a credit facility for $50,000 with
Wachovia Bank, N.A.    Indebtedness under the line is unsecured and subject to
traditional covenants relating to financial ratios and tangible net worth.  As
of December 31, 1999 and 2000, there was no amount outstanding under this credit
facility.  This credit facility expires in August 2001, at which time any
outstanding balance is due.

     For the years subsequent to December 31, 2000, payment obligations and
interest payments on capital leases and a note payable are as follows:

                                      2001           $    861
                                      2002                797
                                      2003                467
                                                     --------
                                                        2,125
Less amounts representing interest                       (158)
                                                     --------
Net present value and a note payable                 $  1,967
                                                     ========

                                      F-17
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                     (in thousands, except per share data)


11.  Long-Term Debt and Lease Obligations (Continued):

     Operating Leases

     The Company is obligated under noncancellable leases expiring at various
dates through 2015 relating to its operating facilities and certain equipment.
Rental expense for all operating leases, net of sublease income, was $13,646,
$13,625 and $17,832 for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000,
respectively.

     The Company completed a sale-leaseback transaction involving owned real
estate in Austin, Texas, in November 1995.  Total gross proceeds in the
transaction were $12,000, resulting in a pre-tax gain of approximately $2,100.
The gain, which has been deferred, is classified as deferred rent and other in
the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and is being amortized as a
reduction of rent expense on a straight-line basis over the 15-year lease term.
The facilities are leased to the Company with all responsibility of operations
and maintenance residing with the Company.

     Certain facility leases entered into provided for concessions by the
landlords, including payments for leasehold improvements, moving expenses, and
free rent periods.  These concessions have been reflected as deferred rent and
other in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.  The Company is
recording rent expense on a straight-line basis for these leases.


     Future minimum payments for all operating lease obligations for years
subsequent to December 31, 2000 are as follows:

                         2001                  $ 18,867
                         2002                    17,457
                         2003                    16,530
                         2004                    15,936
                         2005                    15,049
                         2006 and thereafter     52,025
                                               --------
                                               $135,864
                                               ========

12.  Stock Plans:

Stock Incentive Program

     The Company has two stock option plans (the "Plans") under which the
Company may grant options to its employees and directors for up to 3,600 shares
of common stock.  Under the Plans, the exercise price of each option granted
must equal the market price of the Company's stock on the date of grant and an
option's maximum exercise term is 10 years.  Options are granted upon approval
of the Board of Directors and vest over various periods, as determined by the
Board of Directors at the date of the grant.  The majority of the Company's
options vest over a period of three years.  PPD Medical Communications had an
incentive option plan for the grant of options to employees.  These options
generally vested over four years and had maximum exercise terms of 10 years.
During the year ended December 31, 1998, PPD Medical Communications recorded
$198 of stock-based compensation expense.  PPD Medical Communications options
were exchanged for options to purchase approximately 216 shares of the Company's
common stock.

                                      F-18
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                     (in thousands, except per share data)

12.  Stock Plans (Continued):

     On January 1, 1996, the Company adopted the disclosure requirements of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 ("SFAS No. 123"),
"Accounting for Stock Based Compensation."  As permitted by SFAS No. 123, the
Company has chosen to apply Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees", and related interpretations in
accounting for the Plans.  Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized
for options granted under the Plans.  Had compensation cost for the Company's
Plans been determined based on the fair value at the grant dates for awards
under the Plans consistent with the method required by SFAS No. 123, the
Company's net income and diluted net income per share would have been the pro
forma amounts indicated below.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        1998                1999                 2000
                                -------------------  -------------------  -------------------
                                     As Restated
                                   As                   As                   As
                                Reported  Pro Forma  Reported  Pro Forma  Reported  Pro Forma
                                --------  ---------  --------  ---------  --------  ---------
<S>                             <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>
Net income                      $ 21,214  $  17,128  $ 28,496  $  25,232  $ 32,310  $  28,934
Basic net income per share      $   0.88  $    0.71  $   1.16  $    1.03  $   1.29  $    1.16
Diluted net income per share    $   0.88  $    0.71  $   1.15  $    1.02  $   1.28  $    1.15
</TABLE>

     For the purposes of the pro forma presentation above, the fair value of
each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for
grants in 1998, 1999 and 2000: expected volatility of 60.3%, 81.1% and 68.1%,
respectively; risk-free interest of 5.75%, 6.19% and 4.99%, respectively; and
expected lives of five years. The resulting estimated weighted average fair
value of options granted during 1998, 1999 and 2000 was $12.58, $13.71 and
$15.78 per share, respectively. With the exception of the PPD Medical
Communications' options, all options granted during the years ended December 31,
1998, 1999 and 2000 were granted with an exercise price equal to the fair value
of the Company's common stock at the grant date. The estimated pro forma amounts
above include the compensation cost for the Company's Employee Stock Purchase
Plan based on the fair value of the contributions under this plan consistent
with the method of SFAS No. 123.

     A summary of the status of the Plans at December 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000,
and changes during the years, is presented below and includes common stock
options of the Company and PPD Medical Communications:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    1998                          1999                     2000
                                         ---------------------------    -----------------------   -----------------------
                                                As Restated
                                                         Weighted                   Weighted                 Weighted
                                                          Average                    Average                  Average
                                         Shares       Exercise Price    Shares   Exercise Price   Shares   Exercise Price
                                         ------       --------------    ------   --------------   ------   --------------
<S>                                      <C>          <C>               <C>      <C>              <C>      <C>
Outstanding at beginning of year          1,653           $    19.89     1,790       $    19.56    1,607       $    18.69
Granted                                     618                16.59       378            14.22      411            25.92
Exercised                                  (398)               12.60      (221)           18.78     (478)           14.38
Forfeited                                   (83)               25.97      (340)           24.67     (139)           21.14
                                          -----                          -----                     -----
Outstanding at end of year                1,790           $    19.56     1,607       $    18.69    1,401       $    22.10
                                          =====           ==========     =====       ==========    =====       ==========
Options exercisable at end of year          970           $    19.29     1,008       $    18.40      750       $    20.87
                                          =====           ==========     =====       ==========    =====       ==========
</TABLE>

                                      F-19
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC.AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                    (in thousands, except per share date)


12.  Stock Plans (Continued):

     The following table summarizes information about the Plans' stock options
     at December 31, 2000:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                Options Outstanding                            Options Exercisable
                               -----------------------------------------------------       -----------------------------

                                 Number           Weighted Average       Weighted            Number          Weighted
            Range of           Outstanding           Remaining           Average           Exercisable       Average
         Exercise Prices       at 12/31/00        Contractual Life    Exercise Price       at 12/31/00    Exercise Price
         ---------------       -----------        ----------------    --------------       -----------    --------------
         <S>                   <C>                <C>                 <C>                  <C>            <C>
         $  0.00 - $ 5.39           16                8.0 years             $ 3.91              16            $ 3.91
         $  5.40 - $10.78           45                7.4 years             $ 7.89              30            $ 7.93
         $ 10.79 - $16.16          299                7.8 years             $12.82             168            $13.25
         $ 16.17 - $21.55          386                8.0 years             $19.74             158            $19.05
         $ 21.56 - $26.94          373                6.8 years             $25.32             294            $25.47
         $ 26.95 - $32.33           90                8.1 years             $28.44              53            $28.03
         $ 32.34 - $37.71          172                9.3 years             $35.93              22            $33.76
         $ 37.72 - $43.10           15                6.5 years             $40.00               9            $39.99
         $ 48.50 - $83.88            5               10.0 years             $50.39               0            $ 0.00
                                 -----                                                       -----
                                 1,401                                                         750
                                 =====                                                       =====
</TABLE>

Savings Related Stock Option Plan

     The Company has a United Kingdom Savings Related Stock Option Plan under
which options are granted to employees who elect to purchase shares of common
stock at the end of a five- or seven-year period.  Savings are accumulated
through voluntary payroll deductions.  The Company contributes a bonus to each
participant's savings account equal to nine monthly contributions at the end of
the five-year period and 18 monthly contributions at the end of the seven-year
period.  When the savings period ends, the employee may elect to purchase the
shares using the savings balance, including the bonus; purchase some of the
shares and receive the savings balance in cash; or receive the savings and bonus
in cash.  Currently, employees of the Company's United Kingdom subsidiary,
Pharmaco International Ltd., participate in this plan.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

     The Board of Directors has reserved 1,250 shares of the Company's common
stock for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP").  The
ESPP has two six-month offering periods (each an "Offering Period") annually,
beginning January 1 and July 1, respectively.  The first Offering Period under
the ESPP began July 1, 1997.  Eligible employees can elect to make deductions
from 1% to 15% of their compensation during each payroll period of an Offering
Period.  Special limitations apply to eligible employees who own 5% or more of
the outstanding common stock of the Company.  None of the contributions made by
eligible employees to purchase the Company's common stock under the ESPP are tax
deductible to the employees.  At the end of an Offering Period, the total
payroll deductions by an eligible employee for that Offering Period will be used
to purchase common stock of the Company at a price equal to 85% of the lesser of
(a) the reported closing price of the Company's common stock for the first day
of the Offering Period, or (b) the reported closing price of the common stock
for the last day of the Offering Period.  Only 150 shares will be available for
purchase during each of the Offering Periods.

                                      F-20
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC.AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                    (in thousands, except per share date)


12.  Stock Plans (Continued):

     Employees eligible to participate in the ESPP include employees of the
Company and its United States operating subsidiaries, except those employees who
customarily work less than 20 hours per week or five months in a year.  Since
the eligible employee determines both participation in and contributions to the
ESPP, it is not possible to determine the benefits and amounts that would be
received by an eligible participant or group of participants in the future.

     At December 31, 2000, $1,228 had been contributed to the ESPP relating to
unissued shares.  Shares were not issued on December 31, 2000, since the market
had to be closed before a purchase price could be determined.  On January 5,
2001, 67 shares were issued.  During 2000, $2,349 had been contributed to the
ESPP and 228 shares were issued.  The compensation costs for the ESPP as
determined based on the fair value of the contributions under the ESPP,
consistent with the method of SFAS No. 123, was $532, $466 and $497 and is
reflected in the pro forma net income and basic and diluted net income per share
for 1998, 1999 and 2000, respectively, as disclosed above.

13.  Income Taxes:

     The components of income (loss) before provision for income taxes were as
     follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                       Years Ended December 31,
                                                                                ----------------------------------------
                                                                                   1998           1999            2000
                                                                                -----------     ---------      ---------
     <S>                                                                        <C>             <C>            <C>
                                                                                As restated
     Domestic                                                                    $  26,320      $  38,782      $  53,172
     Foreign                                                                          (272)         2,263         (2,341)
                                                                                 ---------      ---------      ---------
     Income (loss) from continuing operations                                       26,048         41,045         50,831

     Domestic                                                                        7,357           (683)             -
     Foreign                                                                           269             37              -
                                                                                 ---------      ---------      ---------
     Income from discontinued operations                                             7,626           (646)             -
                                                                                 ---------      ---------      ---------
          Total                                                                  $  33,674      $  40,399      $  50,831
                                                                                 =========      =========      =========
</TABLE>

     The components of the provision for income taxes were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                        Years Ended December 31,
                                                                                 ---------------------------------------
                                                                                   1998            1999          2000
                                                                                 ---------      ---------      ---------
     <S>                                                                         <C>            <C>            <C>
     State income taxes:
          Current                                                                $     942      $   1,620      $     708
          Deferred                                                                      99           (329)        (1,037)
     Federal income taxes:
          Current                                                                    9,607         10,113         15,721
          Deferred                                                                   1,549           (589)         1,397
     Foreign income taxes:
          Current                                                                      503          1,288          1,196
          Deferred                                                                    (240)          (200)           536
                                                                                 ---------      ---------      ---------
     Provision for income taxes                                                  $  12,460      $  11,903      $  18,521
                                                                                 =========      =========      =========
</TABLE>

                                      F-21
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC.AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                    (in thousands, except per share date)

13.  Income Taxes (Continued):

     The income tax provision is included in the financial statements as
     follows:

                                                   Years Ended December 31,
                                                 --------------------------
                                                  1998     1999      2000
                                                 -------  -------   -------
     Continuing operations                       $ 9,448  $12,154   $18,521
     Discontinued operations                       3,012     (251)        -
                                                 -------  -------   -------
        Total                                    $12,460  $11,903   $18,521
                                                 =======  =======   =======

     The 1998, 1999 and 2000 current foreign income tax expense represents the
foreign income tax liabilities associated with the Company's foreign operations.

     The 1999 federal and state tax expense reflects the benefit related to the
utilization of capital loss carryforwards to offset the capital gains derived
from the Company's investment activities.  Additionally, a tax planning strategy
was implemented during the second quarter with the full benefit recognized in
the financial statements.

     Taxes computed at the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate of 35% are
reconciled to the provision for income taxes as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          Years Ended December 31,
                                                                  ------------------------------------
                                                                     1998           1999         2000
                                                                   -------        -------      -------
                                                                  As restated
<S>                                                               <C>             <C>          <C>
     Effective tax rate                                                38.7%         29.5%        36.4%
                                                                    =======       =======      =======

     United States federal statutory rate of 35%                    $11,786       $14,140      $17,791
     State taxes (net of federal benefit)                               677           839         (919)
     Utilization of capital loss carryforward                        (1,799)       (3,853)        (611)
     Tax gain in excess of book                                       1,319             -            -
     Foreign taxes in excess of U.S. rate                               423           591           69
     Allowance for limitation of utilization of foreign
      tax losses                                                        (38)          (91)         610
     Goodwill and other items not deductible for income
      tax purposes                                                      450           432          649
     Other                                                             (331)          261         (121)
     Deferred taxes set up for S to C conversion on
      acquisitions                                                        -          (211)           -
     Change in valuation allowance                                      (27)         (205)       1,053
                                                                    -------       -------      -------
     Provision for income taxes                                     $12,460       $11,903      $18,521
                                                                    =======       =======      =======
</TABLE>

     During 1997, the Company began recording deferred taxes at a 35% federal
rate due to expected levels of income in the future.

                                      F-22
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC.AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                    (in thousands, except per share date)

13.  Income Taxes (Continued):

     Components of the net current deferred tax asset are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    December 31,
                                                            ---------------------------
                                                              1999              2000
                                                            -------           ---------
     <S>                                                    <C>               <C>
     Future benefit of foreign net operating losses         $ 2,732           $   3,249
     Allowance for doubtful accounts                            319                 650
     Accrued expenses                                         3,157               1,483
     Valuation allowance                                     (2,196)             (3,249)
                                                            -------           ---------
     Net current deferred tax asset                         $ 4,012           $   2,133
                                                            =======           =========

     Components of the net long-term deferred tax asset, which are included in
other assets on the consolidated balance sheets, are as follows:

<CAPTION>
                                                                    December 31,
                                                              --------------------------
                                                               1999               2000
                                                              -------            -------
     <S>                                                      <C>             <C>
     Depreciation and amortization                             2,148          $   2,243
     Deferred rent                                                 -                244
     Other                                                      (868)               (83)
                                                               -----          ---------
     Net long-term deferred tax asset                          1,280          $   2,404
                                                               =====          =========
</TABLE>

     A valuation allowance was recorded against the foreign net operating loss
carryforwards because there is a significant uncertainty that the deferred tax
assets will be realized.

     The cumulative amount of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries for
which the Company has not provided U.S. income taxes at December 31, 2000 was
$2,490.  No provision has been made for the additional taxes that would result
from the distribution of earnings of foreign subsidiaries since such earnings
have been permanently reinvested in the foreign operations.

14.  Employee Savings and Pension Plans:

Savings Plan

     The Company provides a 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan to its U.S.
employees.  The Company matches 50% of an employee's savings up to 6% of pay,
and these contributions vest ratably over a four-year period.  Company matching
contributions for all employees for each of the three years ended December 31,
1998, 1999 and 2000 were $2,228, $2,562 and $2,977, respectively.

Pension Plans

     Pension costs are determined under the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions", and related
disclosures are determined under the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 132, "Employers' Disclosures about Pensions and other
Postretirement Benefits," which was adopted by the Company in 1998.

     The Company has a separate contributory defined benefit plan (the "U.K.
Plan") for its qualifying United Kingdom employees and directors employed by the
Company's U.K. subsidiaries.  The benefits for the U.K. Plan are based primarily
on years of service and average pay at retirement.  Plan assets consist
principally of investments managed in a mixed fund.

                                      F-23
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT,INC.AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                     (in thousands,except per share data)


14.  Employee Savings and Pension Plans (Continued):

     Pension costs for the U.K. Plan included the following components:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                         Years Ended December 31,
                                                                                ------------------------------------
                                                                                  1998           1999          2000
                                                                                --------       --------      -------
    <S>                                                                         <C>            <C>           <C>
     Service cost-benefits earned
       during the year                                                           $   662        $   740       $   848
     Interest cost on projected
       benefit obligation                                                            777            756           805
     Actual return on plan assets                                                   (984)        (1,006)          (72)
     Net amortization and deferral                                                   (13)           205          (711)
                                                                                --------       --------      --------
     Net periodic pension cost                                                   $   442        $   695       $   870
                                                                                ========       ========      ========
</TABLE>

The change in benefit obligation, change in plan assets and funded status of the
defined benefit plan were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                         Years Ended December 31,
                                                                                ------------------------------------
                                                                                  1998           1999          2000
                                                                                --------       --------      -------
    <S>                                                                         <C>            <C>           <C>
     Change in benefit obligations
       Benefit of obligation at beginning of year                                $ 8,528        $11,545       $14,507
       Service cost                                                                  662            740           848
       Interest cost                                                                 777            756           805
       Net actuarial loss (gain)                                                   2,046          2,047           750
       Benefits paid                                                                (513)          (273)         (285)
       Foreign currency translation adjustment                                        45           (308)         (849)
                                                                                --------       --------      --------
       Benefit obligation at end of year                                         $11,545        $14,507       $15,776
                                                                                ========       ========      ========
     Change in plan assets
       Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year                            $10,931        $12,579       $16,250
       Actual asset return                                                         1,535          3,626            72
       Employer contributions                                                        430            457           582
       Plan participants' contributions                                              141            195           248
       Benefits and expenses paid                                                   (513)          (273)         (285)
       Foreign currency translation adjustment                                        55           (334)       (1,229)
                                                                                --------       --------      --------
       Fair value of plan assets at end of year                                  $12,579        $16,250       $15,638
                                                                                ========       ========      ========

     Net amount recognized
       Funded status                                                             $ 1,034        $ 1,743       $  (137)
       Unrecognized transition asset                                                 (85)           (69)          (52)
       Unrecognized net actuarial loss (gain)                                      1,085            265         1,899
                                                                                --------       --------      --------
       Prepaid pension cost                                                      $ 2,034        $ 1,939       $ 1,710
                                                                                ========       ========      ========
</TABLE>

     Assumptions used to determine pension costs and projected benefit
     obligations were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  1998           1999          2000
                                                                                --------       --------      --------
    <S>                                                                            <C>           <C>           <C>
     Discount rate                                                                  7.5%          5.5%          6.0%
     Rate of compensation increase                                                  5.0%          3.0%          4.0%
     Long-term rate of return on plan assets                                        8.5%          8.0%          5.0%
</TABLE>

                                     F-24
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT,INC.AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                     (in thousands,except per share data)


14.  Savings and Pension Plans (Continued):

     Prior to January 31, 1999, the Company maintained the APBI Environmental
Sciences Group, Inc. Pension Plan (the "ENVIRON Pension Plan"), a tax-qualified,
defined-contribution money-purchase pension plan, for the benefit of its
eligible ENVIRON employees. ENVIRON was required to make annual contributions to
the ENVIRON Pension Plan in an amount equal to the sum of 3.75% of each eligible
employee's total compensation, plus 3.75% of the portion of such employee's
compensation in excess of the Social Security wage base. Participants vested in
20% of their account balances after two years of service and 20% per year until
they were fully vested. The annual pension expense of the ENVIRON Pension Plan
for the year ended December 31, 1998 was $697.

     All benefits under the ENVIRON Pension Plan became the responsibility of
the purchaser of the environmental services segment on January 31, 1999.

15.  Commitments and Contingencies:

     The Company currently maintains liability insurance on a "claims made"
basis for professional acts, errors and omissions. The policy has a self-insured
retention per claim of $250. As of December 31, 1999 and 2000, there are no open
claims related to this coverage above the self-insured retention. Effective
January 1, 2001, the Company ceased its self-insured policy and began paying
premiums on a health insurance policy with an outside carrier. Previously, the
Company was self-insured for group health for employees located within the
United States. The Company maintained insurance on a "claims made" basis, up to
a maximum of $100 per occurrence. As of December 31, 1999 and 2000, the Company
maintained a reserve of approximately $1,752 and $2,423, respectively, included
in other accrued expenses on the consolidated balance sheets to cover estimated
open claims and claims incurred but not reported.

     In the normal course of business, the Company is a party to various claims
and legal proceedings. The Company records a reserve for these matters when an
adverse outcome is probable and the amount of the potential liability is
reasonably estimable. Although the ultimate outcome of these matters is
currently not determinable, management of the Company, after consultation with
legal counsel, does not believe that the resolution of these matters will have a
material effect upon the Company's financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows for an interim or annual period.

16.  Fair Value of Financial Instruments:

     The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate
that value:

Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities

     The carrying amount approximates fair value because of the short maturity
of these items.

Notes Receivable

     The notes receivable from the sale of CCCR and ENVIRON are carried at their
original value. The Company believes the carrying value approximated market
value on December 31, 2000.

                                     F-25
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT,INC.AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                     (in thousands,except per share data)


16.  Fair Value of Financial Instruments (Continued):

Investments

     The Company's investments in DNA Sciences, Spotlight Health, DAS and
CancerConsultants.com are recorded at $32,005, $5,000, $1,500 and $250,
respectively, at December 31, 2000. The Company's investments in these companies
are accounted for using the cost method of accounting as these investments are
not tradeable and the Company does not exert significant influence on the
operations of these companies.

Derivative Financial Instrument

     The Company entered into a purchase and sale of a U.S. Treasury Bond with a
face value of $520,000 during the fourth quarter of 1999 with the same financial
institution. The Company has the legal right of offset with regard to the
obligation to pay for the cost of the U.S. Treasury Bond and the investment in
the U.S. Treasury Bond. The fair value of this net obligation of $(100) at
December 31, 1999 was based on the quoted market price of these investments and
is determined as follows:

     Fair Value of U.S. Treasury Bond    $537,958
     Fair Value of Purchase Obligation   (538,058)
                                          -------
                                         $   (100)
                                          =======

Long-Term Debt

     The fair value of the Company's long-term debt is estimated based on the
quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates
offered to the Company for debt of the same remaining maturities. Fair value
approximates the carrying amount as the Company's debt instruments bear interest
based on variable rates.

Letters of Credit

     The Company utilizes letters of credit to back certain guarantees and
insurance policies. The letters of credit reflect fair value as a condition of
their underlying purpose and are subject to fees competitively determined in the
marketplace.

17.  Business Segment Data:

     During 1998 and 1999, the Company operated in three business segments -
development, environmental sciences and discovery sciences. The Company sold its
environmental sciences segment in January 1999 (see Note 4). Accordingly, the
income statements have been restated to conform to the provisions of APB 30,
"Reporting the Results of Operations - Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a
Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual, and Infrequently Occurring
Events and Operations". The consolidated balance sheets and statement of cash
flows have not been restated to exclude the assets, liabilities and cash flows
of the environmental sciences segment.


                                     F-26
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT,INC.AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                     (in thousands,except per share data)


17.  Business Segment Data (Continued):

     Revenues by principal business segment are separately stated in the
consolidated financial statements. Merger costs and acquired in-process research
and development costs incurred in 1998 and 1999 of $3,163 and $218,
respectively, were not allocated to the Company's business segments and are
shown separately for purposes of business segment analysis. Income taxes are
allocated evenly to each division for purposes of business segment analysis,
except for the 1999 tax benefit of $3,800 from the reversal of a portion of the
valuation allowance on the Company's capital loss carryforward which has been
specifically identified to the Development segment. Income from operations, net
income, depreciation and amortization, identifiable assets and capital
expenditures by principal business segment were as follows:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       Years Ended December 31,
                                                    ------------------------------
                                                      1998       1999       2000
                                                    --------   --------   --------
                                                 As restated
        <S>                                        <C>        <C>        <C>
     Income (loss) from operations: (a)

         Development                                $ 30,112   $ 44,669   $ 40,834
         Discovery sciences                           (4,489)    (7,743)     2,713
         Merger costs and acquired in-process
           research and development costs             (3,163)      (218)         -
                                                    --------   --------   --------
         Total                                      $ 22,460   $ 36,708   $ 43,547
                                                    ========   ========   ========
     Net income (loss):
         Development                                $ 19,327   $ 33,630   $ 30,592
         Discovery sciences                           (2,727)    (4,739)     1,718
         Environmental sciences                        4,614       (395)         -
                                                    --------   --------   --------
         Total                                      $ 21,214   $ 28,496   $ 32,310
                                                    ========   ========   ========
     Depreciation and amortization: (a)
         Development                                $ 12,333   $ 14,294   $ 16,166
         Discovery sciences                              420        548      1,067
                                                    --------   --------   --------
         Total                                      $ 12,753   $ 14,842   $ 17,233
                                                    ========   ========   ========

     Identifiable assets: (b)
         Development                                $207,129   $286,424   $336,844
         Discovery sciences                            3,672      2,279      9,780
         Environmental sciences                       32,528          -          -
                                                    --------   --------   --------
         Total                                      $243,329   $288,703   $346,624
                                                    ========   ========   ========

     Capital expenditures:
         Development                                $ 19,957   $ 22,644   $ 18,231
         Discovery sciences                              740        589      3,284
         Environmental sciences                        1,737          -          -
                                                    --------   --------   --------
         Total                                      $ 22,434   $ 23,233   $ 21,515
                                                    ========   ========   ========
</TABLE>
(a)  Does not include results of operations of the environmental sciences
     segment, which was sold January 31, 1999.  See Note 4.
(b)  The note receivable from the sale of the environmental sciences segment is
     included in the Development segment.  See Note 4.

                                     F-27
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                     (in thousands, except per share data)


18.  Operations By Geographic Area:

     The following table presents information about the Company's operations by
geographic area:

                                           Years Ended December 31,

                                       --------------------------------
                                          1998       1999       2000
                                        --------   --------   --------
                                     As restated
     Net revenue:  (a)
         United States                  $210,196   $257,717   $303,048
         U.K.                             16,506     16,391     15,635
         Other (b)                        19,752     28,422     26,635
                                        --------   --------   --------
         Total                          $246,454   $302,530   $345,318
                                        ========   ========   ========
     Operating income (loss): (a)
         United States                  $ 22,168   $ 35,362   $ 47,338
         U.K.                             (1,004)      (469)    (1,990)
         Other (b)                         1,296      1,815     (1,801)
                                        --------   --------   --------
         Total                          $ 22,460   $ 36,708   $ 43,547
                                        ========   ========   ========
     Identifiable assets:
         United States                  $190,158   $244,403   $303,604
         U.K.                             36,825     27,988     27,783
         Other (b)                        16,346     16,312     13,528
                                        --------   --------   --------
         Total                          $243,329   $288,703   $344,915
                                        ========   ========   ========

(a)  Does not include results of operations of the environmental sciences
     segment, which was sold January 31, 1999. See Note 4.

(b)  Principally consists of operations in 17 countries, ten of which are
     located in Europe, none of which individually comprise more than 5% of net
     revenue, operating income (loss) or identifiable assets.

                                      F-28
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                     (in thousands, except per share data)


19.  Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

               1999                           First    Second    Third    Fourth     Total
- -----------------------------------          --------  -------  --------  -------  ---------
<S>                                          <C>       <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>
Net revenue                                  $69,610   $76,254  $79,358   $77,308  $302,530

Operating income                               9,029     9,805   10,962     6,912    36,708
Net income from continuing
  operations                                   6,256     6,622    7,396     8,617    28,891
Net income (loss) from operations
  of discontinued environmental
  sciences segment                              (125)        -     (270)        -      (395)
Net income                                     6,131     6,622    7,126     8,617    28,496
Income from continuing
  operations per share:
          Basic                              $  0.26   $  0.27  $  0.30   $  0.35  $   1.18
          Diluted                            $  0.25   $  0.27  $  0.30   $  0.35  $   1.16

Net income per share:
          Basic                              $  0.25   $  0.27  $  0.29   $  0.35  $   1.16
          Diluted                            $  0.25   $  0.27  $  0.29   $  0.35  $   1.15


     2000
- ----------------------
Net revenue                                  $81,761   $84,049  $89,270   $90,238  $345,318

Operating income                               9,292     9,275   12,051    12,929    43,547

Net income                                     6,640     6,927    8,776     9,967    32,310

Net income per share:
          Basic                              $  0.27   $  0.28  $  0.35   $  0.40  $   1.29
          Diluted                            $  0.27   $  0.28  $  0.35   $  0.39  $   1.28
</TABLE>

                                      F-29
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                     (in thousands, except per share data)


20.  Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements:

     In March 1999, the Company acquired PPD Medical Communications (formerly
ATP, Inc.).  The acquisition was accounted for using the pooling of interests
method.  The results of operations of the Company for periods prior to January
1, 1999 were not originally restated to include PPD Medical Communications'
results of operations.

     In January 2001, the Company's auditors advised that, due to certain SEC
interpretations, it would be necessary to revise the 1998 consolidated financial
statements to reflect the impact of the PPD Medical Communications acquisition.
As such, the Company has restated its financial statements for the year ended
December 31, 1998 to include the results of operations of PPD Medical
Communications.

     The effect of the restatement on the consolidated statements of operations
for the year ended December 31, 1998 is as follows:

                                                    As
                                                previously     As
                                                 reported   restated
                                                ----------  --------

Net revenue                                       $235,553  $246,454
Direct costs - Development                         117,625   123,562
Other operating expenses                            96,887   100,432
                                                  --------  --------
Income from operations                              21,041    22,460
Other income (expense), net                          3,562     3,588
                                                  --------  --------
Income from continuing operations before
   provision for income taxes                       24,603    26,048
Provision for income taxes                           9,448     9,448
                                                  --------  --------
Income from continuing operations                   15,155    16,600
Discontinued operations                              4,614     4,614
                                                  --------  --------
Net income                                        $ 19,769  $ 21,214
                                                  ========  ========

Income from continuing operations per share:
  Basic                                           $   0.65  $   0.69
                                                  ========  ========
  Diluted                                         $   0.65  $   0.69
                                                  ========  ========

Income from discontinued operations
  per share:
  Basic                                           $   0.20  $   0.19
                                                  ========  ========
  Diluted                                         $   0.20  $   0.19
                                                  ========  ========

Net income per share:
  Basic                                           $   0.85  $   0.88
                                                  ========  ========
  Diluted                                         $   0.85  $   0.88
                                                  ========  ========

Weighted average number of
   common shares outstanding:
  Basic                                             23,186    23,991
                                                  ========  ========
  Diluted                                           23,355    24,160
                                                  ========  ========

                                      F-30
<PAGE>

           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                     (in thousands, except per share data)


20.  Restatement of Previously Issued Financial Statements (Continued):

     The effect of the restatement on the consolidated statements of cash flows
for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1999 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      As
For the year ended December 31, 1998                              previously          As
- -------------------------------------                              reported        restated
                                                                  -----------     ----------
<S>                                                               <C>             <C>
Net cash provided by operating activities                           $ 23,575       $ 25,382
Net cash used in investing activities                                (11,045)       (14,136)
Net cash provided by financing activities                              5,596          7,430
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents              78             78
                                                                    --------       --------
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents                             18,204         18,754
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the year                      15,879         16,067
                                                                    --------       --------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of the year                          $ 34,083       $ 34,821
                                                                    ========       ========

                                                                      As
For the year ended December 31, 1999                              previously          As
- ------------------------------------                               reported        restated
                                                                  ----------      ----------
Net cash used in investing activities                               $(22,043)      $(22,781)
Net cash received from acquisitions                                 $    738       $      -
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the year                    $ 34,083       $ 34,821
Cash and cash equivalents, end of the year                          $ 61,251       $ 61,251
</TABLE>

                                      F-31
<PAGE>

                                  SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

                                        PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC.

Date: March 13, 2001                    By: /s/ Fredric N. Eshelman, Pharm.D.
                                            ---------------------------------
                                        Name: Fredric N. Eshelman, Pharm.D.
                                        Title: Chief Executive Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

<TABLE>
<S>                                <C>                                               <C>
/s/ Fredric N. Eshelman, Pharm.D.  Chief Executive Officer and Director              March 13, 2001
- --------------------------------   (Principal Executive Officer)
Fredric N. Eshelman, Pharm.D.


/s/ Philippe M. Maitre             Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial      March 13, 2001
- -----------------------------      Officer)
Philippe M. Maitre

/s/ Linda Baddour                  Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting    March 13, 2001
- -----------------------------      Officer)
Linda Baddour

/s/ Ernest Mario, Ph.D.            Director                                          March 13, 2001
- -----------------------------
Ernest Mario, Ph.D.

/s/ Stuart Bondurant, M.D.         Director                                          March 13, 2001
- -----------------------------
Stuart Bondurant, M.D.

/s/v Abraham E. Cohen              Director                                          March 13, 2001
- -----------------------------
Abraham E. Cohen

/s/ Frederick Frank                Director                                          March 13, 2001
- -----------------------------
Frederick Frank

/s/ Paul J. Rizzo                  Director                                          March 13, 2001
- -----------------------------
Paul J. Rizzo

/s/ John A. McNeill, Jr.           Director                                          March 13, 2001
- -----------------------------
John A. McNeill, Jr.

/s/ Catherine M. Klema             Director                                          March 13, 2001
- -----------------------------
Catherine M. Klema
</TABLE>

                                     S-1
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2.6
<SEQUENCE>2
<FILENAME>0002.txt
<DESCRIPTION>AGREEMENT & PLAN OF MERGER
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                     EXHIBIT 2.6





================================================================================


                AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER AND REORGANIZATION


                                    among:


                              DNA Sciences, Inc.,
                            a Delaware corporation;


                            PIPO Acquisition Corp.,
                            a Delaware corporation;


                                      and


                                  PPGx, Inc.,
                            a Delaware corporation;


                       _________________________________

                         Dated as of December 17, 2000
                       _________________________________


================================================================================
<PAGE>

                               Table Of Contents
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                       Page
<S>                                                                                    <C>
SECTION 1. Description of Transaction.................................................   1

    1.1   Merger of Merger Sub into the Company.......................................   1

    1.2   Effect of the Merger........................................................   1

    1.3   Closing; Effective Time.....................................................   1

    1.4   Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws; Directors and Officers.............   2

    1.5   Conversion of Shares........................................................   2

    1.6   Stock Options...............................................................   6

    1.7   Closing of the Company's Transfer Books.....................................   7

    1.8   Exchange of Certificates; Escrow Shares.....................................   7

    1.9   Appraisal Rights............................................................   9

   1.10   Tax Consequences............................................................  10

   1.11   Accounting Treatment........................................................  10

   1.12   Further Action..............................................................  10

SECTION 2. Representations and Warranties of the Company..............................  10

    2.1   Due Organization; Subsidiaries; Etc.........................................  10

    2.2   Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws; Records............................  11

    2.3   Capitalization, Etc.........................................................  11

    2.4   Financial Statements........................................................  13

    2.5   Absence of Changes..........................................................  13

    2.6   Title to Assets.............................................................  15

    2.7   Bank Accounts; Receivables..................................................  15

    2.8   Equipment; Leasehold........................................................  16

    2.9   Proprietary Assets..........................................................  16

   2.10   Contracts...................................................................  19

   2.11   Liabilities.................................................................  22

   2.12   Compliance with Legal Requirements..........................................  22

   2.13   Governmental Authorizations and Facility Certifications.....................  22

   2.14   Tax Matters.................................................................  23

   2.15   Employee and Labor Matters; Benefit Plans...................................  25

   2.16   Environmental Matters.......................................................  27
</TABLE>

                                      i.
<PAGE>

                               Table Of Contents
                                  (CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Page

<S>                                                                        <C>
  2.17  Insurance.........................................................  28

  2.18  Related Party Transactions........................................  28

  2.19  Legal Proceedings; Orders.........................................  28

  2.20  Authority; Binding Nature of Agreement............................  29

  2.21  Non-Contravention; Consents.......................................  29

  2.22  Inapplicability of Section 2115 of California Corporations Code...  30

  2.23  Vote Required.....................................................  30

  2.24  Brokers or Finders................................................  30

  2.25  Full Disclosure...................................................  30

SECTION 3. Representations and Warranties of Parent and Merger Sub........  31

  3.1   Organization and Standing; Articles and Bylaws....................  31

  3.2   Capitalization....................................................  31

  3.3   Financial Statements..............................................  32

  3.4   Actions...........................................................  32

  3.5   Title to Properties and Assets; Liens, etc........................  32

  3.6   Patents, Trademarks, etc..........................................  33

  3.7   Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreements.................  33

  3.8   Material Contracts and Commitments................................  33

  3.9   Compliance with Other Instruments.................................  33

  3.10  Validity of Parent Capital Stock..................................  34

  3.11  Governmental Authorizations.......................................  34

  3.12  Tax Returns and Payments..........................................  34

  3.13  Tax Elections.....................................................  34

  3.14  Employees.........................................................  35

  3.15  Employee Benefit Plans............................................  35

  3.16  Environmental Matters.............................................  35

  3.17  Insurance.........................................................  35

  3.18  No Conflict of Interest...........................................  35

  3.19  Litigation, etc...................................................  36

  3.20  Authority; Binding Nature of Agreement............................  36
</TABLE>

                                      ii.

<PAGE>

                               Table Of Contents
                                  (CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                         Page
<S>                                                                                                      <C>
    3.21  Non-Contravention; Consents................................................................... 36

    3.22  Financial Condition........................................................................... 36

    3.24  U.S. Real Property Holding Corporation........................................................ 37

    3.25  Investment Company Act........................................................................ 37

    3.26  No Brokers or Finders......................................................................... 37

    3.27  Full Disclosure............................................................................... 37

SECTION 4. Certain Covenants of the Parties............................................................. 37

     4.1  Access and Investigation...................................................................... 37

     4.2  Operation of the Company's Business........................................................... 37

     4.3  Notification; Updates to Company Disclosure Schedule.......................................... 40

     4.4  Notification; Updates to Parent Disclosure Schedule........................................... 41

     4.5  Operation of Parent's Business.  During the Pre-Closing Period:............................... 41

     4.6  No Negotiation................................................................................ 42

SECTION 5. Additional Covenants of the Parties.......................................................... 43

     5.1  Filings and Consents.......................................................................... 43

     5.2  Company Stockholders' Meeting................................................................. 43

     5.3  Public Announcements.......................................................................... 44

     5.4  Reasonable Efforts............................................................................ 44

     5.5  Tax Matters................................................................................... 44

     5.6  Noncompetition Agreements..................................................................... 44

     5.7  Employment Agreements......................................................................... 44

     5.8  Releases...................................................................................... 45

     5.9  Underwriter Lockup Agreements................................................................. 45

    5.10  Amendment/Clarification of Existing Agreements; Payoff of Company Line of Credit.............. 45

    5.11  Termination of Certain Agreements............................................................. 45

    5.12  FIRPTA Matters................................................................................ 45

    5.13  Employee and Related Matters.................................................................. 46

SECTION 6. Conditions Precedent to Obligations of Parent and Merger Sub................................. 46

    6.1   Accuracy of Representations................................................................... 46
</TABLE>

                                      iii.
<PAGE>

                               Table Of Contents
                                  (CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                     Page
<S>                                                                                                  <C>
     6.2      Performance of Covenants............................................................   47

     6.3      Stockholder Approval................................................................   47

     6.4      Consents............................................................................   47

     6.5      Agreements and Documents............................................................   47

     6.6      Absence of Material Adverse Effect..................................................   48

     6.7      HSR Act.............................................................................   48

     6.8      FIRPTA Compliance...................................................................   48

     6.9      No Restraints.......................................................................   48

     6.10     No Legal Proceedings................................................................   48

     6.11     Employees...........................................................................   48

     6.12     Termination of Certain Agreements...................................................   49

     6.13     Closing of Series C Investment......................................................   49

     6.15     Company Amended and Restated Certificate............................................   49

SECTION 7. Conditions Precedent to Obligations of the Company.....................................   49

     7.1      Accuracy of Representations.........................................................   49

     7.2      Performance of Covenants............................................................   49

     7.3      Documents...........................................................................   49

     7.4      No Restraints.......................................................................   50

     7.5      Absence of Material Adverse Effect..................................................   50

     7.6      HSR Act.............................................................................   50

     7.7      Amended and Restated Certificate....................................................   50

     7.8      Director Appointment................................................................   50

     7.9      Company Amended and Restated Certificate............................................   50

     7.10     Closing of Series C Investment......................................................   50

SECTION 8. Termination............................................................................   50

     8.1      Termination Events..................................................................   50

     8.2      Termination Procedures..............................................................   51

     8.3      Effect of Termination...............................................................   51

SECTION 9. Indemnification, Etc...................................................................   51

     9.1      Survival of Representations, Etc....................................................   51

     9.2      Indemnification.....................................................................   52
</TABLE>

                                      iv.
<PAGE>

                               Table Of Contents
                                  (CONTINUED)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                              Page
<S>                                                                                           <C>
     9.3       Deductible...................................................................  53

     9.4       Exclusive Remedy for Monetary Damages........................................  54

     9.5       No Contribution..............................................................  54

     9.6       Interest.....................................................................  54

     9.7       Defense of Third Party Claims................................................  54

     9.8       Exercise of Remedies by Parent Indemnitees Other Than Parent.................  55

SECTION 10. Miscellaneous Provisions........................................................  55

    10.1       Stockholders' Agents.........................................................  55

    10.2       Further Assurances...........................................................  55

    10.3       Fees and Expenses............................................................  55

    10.4       Attorneys' Fees..............................................................  56

    10.5       Notices......................................................................  56

    10.6       Confidentiality..............................................................  57

    10.7       Time of the Essence..........................................................  57

    10.8       Headings.....................................................................  57

    10.9       Counterparts.................................................................  57

    10.10      Governing Law................................................................  57

    10.11      Successors and Assigns.......................................................  57

    10.12      Remedies Cumulative; Specific Performance....................................  58

    10.13      Waiver.......................................................................  58

    10.14      Amendments...................................................................  58

    10.15      Severability.................................................................  58

    10.16      Parties in Interest..........................................................  58

    10.17      Entire Agreement.............................................................  58

    10.18      Construction.................................................................  59
</TABLE>

                                      v.
<PAGE>

                              AGREEMENT AND PLAN
                         OF MERGER AND REORGANIZATION

     THIS AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER AND REORGANIZATION ("Agreement") is made
and entered into as of December 17, 2000, by and among: DNA SCIENCES, INC., a
Delaware corporation ("Parent"), PIPO ACQUISITION CORP., a Delaware corporation
and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent ("Merger Sub"), and PPGX, INC., a
Delaware corporation (the "Company"). Certain capitalized terms used in this
Agreement are defined in Exhibit A.

                                   Recitals

     A.   Parent, Merger Sub and the Company intend to effect a merger of
Merger Sub into the Company in accordance with this Agreement and the Delaware
General Corporation Law (the "Merger"). Upon consummation of the Merger, Merger
Sub will cease to exist, and the Company will become a wholly owned subsidiary
of Parent.

     B.   It is intended that the Merger qualify as a tax-free reorganization
within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Code"). For accounting purposes, it is intended that the Merger be
treated as a "purchase."

     C.   This Agreement has been approved by the respective boards of directors
of Parent, Merger Sub and the Company.

     D.   Contemporaneously with the execution and delivery of this Agreement,
each of Axys Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Axys") and Pharmaceutical Product
Development, Inc. ("PPD," and collectively with Axys, the "Major Stockholders")
is executing and delivering to Parent a voting agreement (a "Voting Agreement")
of even date herewith substantially in the form of Exhibit B.


                                   Agreement

     The parties to this Agreement agree as follows:

SECTION 1. Description of Transaction

     1.1  Merger of Merger Sub into the Company. Upon the terms and subject to
the conditions set forth in this Agreement, at the Effective Time (as defined in
Section 1.3), Merger Sub shall be merged with and into the Company, and the
separate existence of Merger Sub shall cease. The Company will continue as the
surviving corporation in the Merger (the "Surviving Corporation").

     1.2  Effect of the Merger. The Merger shall have the effects set forth in
this Agreement and in the applicable provisions of the Delaware General
Corporation Law.

     1.3  Closing; Effective Time. The consummation of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement (the "Closing") shall take place at the offices
of Cooley Godward LLP, 3000 El Camino Real, Five Palo Alto Square, Palo Alto,
California 94306 at 10:00 a.m. on a date to be mutually agreed upon by Parent
and the Company no later than three days after the satisfaction

                                      1.
<PAGE>

(or, to the extent permitted, the waiver) of the conditions set forth in
Sections 6 and 7. Contemporaneously with or as promptly as practicable after the
Closing, a properly executed certificate of merger conforming to the
requirements of the Delaware General Corporation Law shall be filed with the
Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. The Merger shall become effective
at the time such certificate of merger is filed with the Secretary of State of
the State of Delaware (the "Effective Time").

     1.4  Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws; Directors and Officers.
Unless otherwise determined by Parent and the Company prior to the Effective
Time:

          (a)  the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation
     shall be amended and restated as of the Effective Time in a form acceptable
     to Parent;

          (b)  the bylaws of the Surviving Corporation shall be amended and
     restated as of the Effective Time to conform to the bylaws of Merger Sub as
     in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time; and

          (c)  the directors and officers of the Surviving Corporation
     immediately after the Effective Time shall be the individuals selected by
     Parent prior to the Closing.

     1.5  Conversion of Shares.

          (a)  Subject to Sections 1.8(c) and 1.9, at the Effective Time, by
virtue of the Merger and without any further action on the part of Parent,
Merger Sub, the Company or any stockholder of the Company:

               (i)   each share of common stock of the Company (par value $0.001
     per share) ("Company Common Stock") outstanding immediately prior to the
     Effective Time shall be converted into the right to receive a fraction of a
     share of the common stock (par value $0.001 per share) of Parent ("Parent
     Common Stock") equal to the Remainder Exchange Ratio;

               (ii)  each share of Series A preferred stock of the Company (par
     value $0.001 per share) ("Company Series A Preferred Stock") outstanding
     immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into the right
     to receive a fraction of a share of the Series D preferred stock (par value
     $0.001 per share) of Parent ("Parent Series D Preferred Stock," and
     together with Parent Common Stock, "Parent Capital Stock") equal to the
     Series A Exchange Ratio; and

               (iii) each share of the common stock (par value $0.001 per share)
     of Merger Sub outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be
     converted into one share of common stock of the Surviving Corporation.

          (b)  For purposes of this Agreement:

               (i)    The "Series A Exchange Ratio" shall be equal to (A) the
     Liquidation Portion Exchange Ratio plus (B) the Remainder Exchange Ratio,
     rounded to five decimal places.

                                      2.
<PAGE>

               (ii)   The "Liquidation Consideration" shall be equal to (A) the
     Debt Repayment divided by (B) a fraction, the numerator of which is
     $47,000,000, and the denominator of which is the Merger Consideration,
     rounded to five decimal places.

               (iii)  The "Liquidation Portion Exchange Ratio" is equal to (A)
     the Liquidation Consideration divided by (B) 10,000,000, rounded to five
     decimal places.

               (iv)   The "Remainder Exchange Ratio" shall be equal to (A) the
     Merger Consideration minus the Liquidation Consideration divided by (B) the
     Aggregate Company Common Number, rounded to five decimal places.

               (v)    The "Debt Repayment" shall mean (A) the actual outstanding
     indebtedness due and payable to the Bank (as defined in Section 4.2(k))
     that is actually repaid by the Company on or prior to the Closing Date in
     accordance with Section 5.10(c) and (B) the value of the indebtedness due
     and payable to the Major Stockholders under the Loan Agreement (as defined
     in Section 4.2(n)) that is actually contributed to capital of the Company
     by the Major Stockholders on or prior to the Closing Date in accordance
     with Section 5.10(c).

               (vi)   "Merger Consideration" shall be equal to (A) 0.1175 times
     (B) the Aggregate Parent Common Number.

               (vii)  The "Aggregate Parent Common Number" shall mean the sum of
     (1) the total number of shares of Parent Common Stock that are issued and
     outstanding on the date hereof; (2) the total number of shares of Parent
     Common Stock that are issuable upon the conversion of any shares of Parent
     Preferred Stock issued and outstanding on the date hereof; (3) the total
     number of shares of Parent Common Stock that are issuable upon the
     conversion of any shares of Parent Series C Preferred Stock issued to PPD
     in connection with the closing of the Series C Investment (as defined in
     Section 6.14) and issued or to be issued to Alliance Capital Partners; (4)
     the total number of shares of Parent Common Stock that are issuable upon
     the exercise in full of all warrants to acquire shares of Parent Common
     Stock that are outstanding on the date hereof; (5) the total number of
     shares of Parent Common Stock that are issuable upon conversion of any
     shares of Parent Preferred Stock that are issuable upon the exercise in
     full of all warrants to acquire shares of Parent Preferred Stock that are
     outstanding on the date hereof; (6) the total number of shares of Down
     Round Stock that are issued and outstanding immediately prior to the
     Effective Time or pursuant to a contractual agreement under which Parent is
     bound, as of the Effective Time, to issue Down Round Stock subsequent to
     the Effective Time; and (7) the total number of shares of capital stock of
     Parent that are issuable upon the conversion or exercise in full of all
     convertible securities or options (whether vested or unvested), warrants or
     other rights to acquire capital stock of Parent that are outstanding on the
     Initial Series C Closing Date other than convertible securities or warrants
     referred to in clauses "(2)," "(3)," "(4)," "(5)" or "(6)" of this
     sentence; provided, however, that notwithstanding anything to the contrary
     contained in this paragraph, no shares, warrants, options or rights shall
     be counted more than one time in calculating the "Aggregate Parent Common
     Number."

                                      3.
<PAGE>

               (viii)  The "Aggregate Company Common Number" shall mean the sum
     of (1) the total number of shares of Company Common Stock that are issued
     and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time; (2) the total
     number of shares of Company Common Stock that are issuable upon the
     conversion of any shares of Company Series A Preferred Stock issued and
     outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time; and (3) the total
     number of shares of Company Capital Stock that are issuable upon the
     conversion or exercise in full of all convertible securities or options,
     warrants or other rights to acquire capital stock of the Company that are
     outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time other than convertible
     securities or warrants referred to in clause "(2)" of this sentence;
     provided, however, that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
     in this paragraph, no shares, warrants, options or rights shall be counted
     more than one time in calculating the "Aggregate Company Common Number."

               (ix)    "Down Round Stock" shall mean all shares of Parent Common
     Stock issued or deemed to be issued by Parent pursuant to this Section
     1.5(b)(v) in a Subsequent Equity Financing (as defined in Section
     1.5(b)(ix)) after the date hereof for an Effective Price less than $14.27
     other than (A) shares of Parent Common Stock issued upon conversion of
     Parent Preferred Stock; (B) shares of Parent Common Stock issued pursuant
     to the bona fide acquisition of (i) another entity by Parent by merger,
     purchase of substantially all of the assets of such entity, or other
     reorganization, or (ii) technology, software, patents or other intellectual
     property by license or purchase; (C) up to 4,500,000 shares of Parent
     Common Stock (or related options) issued to employees, officers, directors,
     consultants, or other persons performing services for Parent (including,
     but not by way of limitation, distributors and sales representatives)
     pursuant to any stock offering, plan, or arrangement approved by Parent's
     board of directors; (D) shares of capital stock issued to financial
     institutions in connection with the extension of credit to Parent or in
     connection with the lease of equipment, up to a maximum of one percent (1%)
     of Parent Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the date
     of this Agreement, and in both cases for other than equity financing
     purposes as approved by Parent's board of directors; or (E) shares of
     capital stock issued in connection with any stock split, stock dividend or
     recapitalization by Parent. In the event Parent at any time or from time to
     time after the date of this Agreement issues any Options or Convertible
     Securities or shall fix a record date for the determination of holders of
     any class of securities entitled to receive any such Options or Convertible
     Securities, then the maximum number of shares (as set forth in the
     instrument relating thereto assuming the satisfaction of any conditions to
     exercisability, including, without limitation, the passage of time and
     without regard to any provisions contained therein for a subsequent
     adjustment of such number) of Parent Common Stock issuable upon the
     exercise of such Options or, in the case of Convertible Securities and
     Options therefor, the conversion or exchange of such Convertible
     Securities, shall be deemed to be shares of Down Round Stock issued as of
     the time of such issue or, in case such a record date shall have been
     fixed, as of the close of business on such record date, provided that with
     respect to a series of preferred stock of Parent, Down Round Stock shall
     not be deemed to have been issued unless the consideration per share of
     such Down Round Stock would be less than the conversion price of such
     series in effect on the date of and immediately prior

                                      4.
<PAGE>

     to such issue, or such record date, as the case may be, and provided
     further that in any such case in which shares of Down Round Stock are
     deemed to be issued:

          (1)       no further adjustment in the Aggregate Parent Common Number
shall be made upon the subsequent issue of Convertible Securities or shares of
Parent Common Stock upon the exercise of such Options or conversion or exchange
of such Convertible Securities;

          (2)       if such Options or Convertible Securities by their terms
provide, with the passage of time or otherwise, for any increase or decrease in
the consideration payable to Parent, or in the number of shares of Parent Common
Stock issuable, upon the exercise, conversion or exchange thereof, the Exchange
Ratio shall be computed so as to reflect any such increase or decrease that has
occurred on or prior to the Effective Time insofar as it affects such Options or
the rights of conversion or exchange under such Convertible Securities;

          (3)       in the event of the expiration or termination of any such
Options or any rights of conversion or exchange under such Convertible
Securities on or prior to the Effective Time, the Exchange Ratio shall be
computed as if:

                    a.       in the case of Convertible Securities or Options
          for Parent Common Stock, the only shares of Down Round Stock issued
          were shares of Parent Common Stock, if any, actually issued upon the
          exercise of such Options or the conversion or exchange of such
          Convertible Securities and the consideration received therefor was the
          consideration actually received by Parent for the issue of all such
          Options, whether or not exercised, plus the consideration actually
          received by Parent upon such exercise, or for the issue of all such
          Convertible Securities which were actually converted or exchanged,
          plus the additional consideration, if any, actually received by Parent
          upon such conversion or exchange, and

                    b.       in the case of Options for Convertible Securities,
          only the Convertible Securities, if any, actually issued upon the
          exercise thereof were issued at the time of issue of such Options, and
          the consideration received by Parent for the shares of Down Round
          Stock deemed to have been then issued was the consideration actually
          received by Parent for the issue of all such Options, whether or not
          exercised, plus the consideration deemed to have been received by
          Parent upon the issue of the Convertible Securities with respect to
          which such Options were actually exercised;

                    (x)      "Convertible Securities" shall mean any evidences
          of indebtedness, shares (other than Parent Common Stock) or other
          securities convertible into or exchangeable for Parent Common Stock.

                    (xi)     The "Effective Price" of a share of Down Round
          Stock shall mean the quotient obtained by dividing the total number of
          shares of Down Round Stock issued or sold, or deemed to have been
          issued or sold by Parent under Section 1.5(b)(v), into the

                                      5.
<PAGE>

         dollar value of the aggregate consideration received, or deemed to have
         been received by Parent, for such shares of Down Round Stock.

                    (xii)    "Options" shall mean rights, options or warrants to
         subscribe for, purchase or otherwise acquire either Parent Common Stock
         or Convertible Securities.

                    (xiii)   A "Subsequent Equity Financing" shall mean the sale
         by Parent, prior to the Effective Time, of Down Round Stock.

               (c)  If any shares of Company Capital Stock outstanding
immediately prior to the Effective Time are unvested or are subject to a
repurchase option, risk of forfeiture or other condition under any applicable
restricted stock purchase agreement or other agreement with the Company, then
the shares of Parent Capital Stock issued in exchange for such shares of Company
Capital Stock will also be unvested and subject to the same repurchase option,
risk of forfeiture or other condition, and the certificates representing such
shares of Parent Capital Stock may accordingly be marked with appropriate
legends.

               (d)  Fifteen percent (15%) of the shares of Parent Capital Stock
otherwise issuable in the Merger to the Major Stockholders (without taking into
account any deductions in respect of payment for Excess Transaction Expenses)
shall be delivered into escrow and held as specified in Section 1.8. In
addition, to the extent a Major Stockholder has not paid such Major
Stockholder's pro rata portion of the Excess Transaction Expenses, an additional
number of shares of Parent Series D Preferred Stock equal to the quotient
obtained by dividing (1) such Major Stockholder's pro rata portion of such
Excess Transaction Expenses by (2) $14.27 (rounded down to the nearest whole
number of shares) shall be deducted from the number of shares of Parent Series D
Preferred Stock otherwise issuable to such Major Stockholder.

               (e)  If, between the date of this Agreement and the Effective
Time, the outstanding shares of Company Capital Stock or Parent Capital Stock
are changed into a different number or class of shares by reason of any stock
split, division or subdivision of shares, stock dividend, reverse stock split,
consolidation of shares, reclassification, recapitalization or other similar
transaction, then the Exchange Ratio shall be appropriately adjusted.

          1.6  Stock Options. At the Effective Time, each option to purchase
shares of Company Capital Stock that is then outstanding, whether vested or
unvested (a "Company Option"), shall be assumed by Parent in accordance with the
terms (as in effect as of the date of this Agreement) of the Company's 1999
Equity Incentive Plan (the "Stock Plan") and the stock option agreement by which
such Company Option is evidenced. All rights with respect to Company Common
Stock under outstanding Company Options shall thereupon be converted into rights
with respect to Parent Common Stock. Accordingly, from and after the Effective
Time, (i) each Company Option assumed by Parent may be exercised solely for
shares of Parent Common Stock, (ii) the number of shares of Parent Common Stock
subject to each such assumed Company Option shall be equal to the number of
shares of Company Common Stock that were subject to such Company Option
immediately prior to the Effective Time multiplied by the Exchange Ratio,
rounded down to the nearest whole number of shares of Parent Common Stock, (iii)
the per share exercise price for the Parent Common Stock issuable upon exercise
of each such assumed Company Option shall be determined by dividing the exercise
price per share of

                                      6.
<PAGE>

Company Common Stock subject to such Company Option, as in effect immediately
prior to the Effective Time, by the Exchange Ratio, and rounding the resulting
exercise price up to the nearest whole cent and (iv) all restrictions on the
exercise of each such assumed Company Option shall continue in full force and
effect, and the term, exercisability, vesting schedule and other provisions of
such Company Option shall otherwise remain unchanged and shall continue to have,
and be subject to, the same terms and conditions as set forth in the Stock Plan
and/or stock option agreement by which such Company Option is evidenced
immediately prior to the Effective Time; provided, however, that each such
assumed Company Option shall, in accordance with its terms, be subject to
further adjustment as appropriate to reflect any stock split, reverse stock
split, stock dividend, recapitalization or other similar transaction effected by
Parent after the Effective Time. The Company and Parent shall take all action
that may be necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Section 1.6.
Following the Closing, Parent will send to each holder of an assumed Company
Option a written notice setting forth (i) the number of shares of Parent Common
Stock subject to such assumed Company Option, and (ii) the exercise price per
share of Parent Common Stock issuable upon exercise of such assumed Company
Option. Parent shall take all necessary corporate action to reserve for issuance
a sufficient number of shares of Parent Common Stock for delivery upon exercise
of Company Options assumed in accordance with this Section 1.6. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Section 1.6, in lieu of assuming
outstanding Company Options in accordance with this Section 1.6 Parent may, at
its election, cause such outstanding Company Options to be replaced by issuing
reasonably equivalent replacement stock options in substitution therefor.

          1.7  Closing of the Company's Transfer Books. At the Effective Time,
holders of certificates representing shares of Company Capital Stock that were
outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall cease to have any
rights as stockholders of the Company, and the stock transfer books of the
Company shall be closed with respect to all shares of such capital stock
outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time. No further transfer of any
such shares of Company Capital Stock shall be made on such stock transfer books
after the Effective Time. If, after the Effective Time, a valid certificate
previously representing any of such shares of Company Capital Stock (a "Company
Stock Certificate") is presented to the Surviving Corporation or Parent, such
Company Stock Certificate shall be canceled and shall be exchanged as provided
in Section 1.8.

          1.8  Exchange of Certificates; Escrow Shares.

               (a)  At or prior to the Effective Time, Parent shall reserve for
exchange in accordance with this Section 1, (i) the aggregate number of shares
of Parent Capital Stock issuable pursuant to Section 1.5 in exchange for
outstanding shares of Company Capital Stock and (ii) cash for fractional shares
in the amount described in Section 1.8(c). At the Closing, each Company
stockholder that does not perfect its appraisal rights and is otherwise entitled
to receive shares of Parent Capital Stock pursuant to Section 1.5 (a "Merger
Stockholder") shall surrender to Parent all certificates representing shares of
Company Capital Stock (properly endorsed for transfer). At or as soon as
practicable after the Effective Time, Parent shall (i) deliver to each Merger
Stockholder that is not a Major Stockholder certificates representing one
hundred percent (100%) of the number of whole shares of Parent Common Stock
and/or Parent Series D Preferred Stock, as the case may be, that such Merger
Stockholder has the right to receive pursuant to the provisions of Section 1.5
(ii) deliver to each Major Stockholder certificates

                                      7.
<PAGE>

representing eighty-five percent (85%) of the number of whole shares of Parent
Common Stock and/or Parent Series D Preferred Stock, as the case may be, that
such Merger Stockholder has the right to receive pursuant to the provisions of
Section 1.5 and (ii) deliver to the escrow agent under the Escrow Agreement in
the form of Exhibit C hereto (the "Escrow Agreement"), on behalf and in the name
of each Major Stockholder, certificates representing fifteen percent (15%) of
the number of whole shares of Parent Common Stock and/or Parent Series D
Preferred Stock, as the case may be, that such Major Stockholder has the right
to receive pursuant to the provisions of Section 1.5 (the "Escrow Shares"). If
any Company Stock Certificate shall have been lost, stolen or destroyed, Parent
may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance of any
certificate representing Parent Capital Stock, require the owner of such lost,
stolen or destroyed Company Stock Certificate to provide an appropriate
affidavit and indemnity agreement against any claim that may be made against
Parent or the Surviving Corporation with respect to such Company Stock
Certificate.

          (b)  No dividends or other distributions declared or made with respect
to Parent Capital Stock with a record date after the Effective Time shall be
paid to the holder of any unsurrendered Company Stock Certificate with respect
to the shares of Parent Common Stock or Parent Series D Preferred Stock
represented thereby, and no cash payment in lieu of any fractional share shall
be paid to any such holder, until such holder surrenders such Company Stock
Certificate in accordance with this Section 1.8 or delivers the affidavit and
indemnity agreement referred to in Section 1.8(a) (at which time such holder
shall be entitled receive all such dividends and distributions and such cash
payment).

          (c)  No fractional shares of Parent Capital Stock shall be issued in
connection with the Merger, and no certificates for any such fractional shares
shall be issued. In lieu of such fractional shares, any holder of Company
Capital Stock who would otherwise be entitled to receive a fraction of a share
of Parent Common Stock (after aggregating all fractional shares of Parent Common
Stock issuable to such holder) and/or a fraction of a share of Parent Series D
Preferred Stock (after aggregating all fractional shares of Parent Series D
Preferred Stock issuable to such holder) shall, upon surrender of such holder's
Company Stock Certificate(s) or affidavit and indemnity agreement referred to in
Section 1.8(a), as the case may be, be paid in cash the dollar amount (rounded
to the nearest whole cent), without interest, determined by multiplying such
fraction by (i) $2.05, with respect to a fraction of a share of Parent Common
Stock, and (b) $14.27, with respect to a fraction of a share of Parent Series D
Preferred Stock.

          (d)  The shares of Parent Capital Stock to be issued in the Merger
shall be characterized as "restricted securities" for purposes of Rule 144 under
the Securities Act, and each certificate representing any such shares shall,
until such time that the shares are not so restricted under the Securities Act,
bear a legend identical or similar in effect to the following legend (together
with any other legend or legends required by applicable state securities laws or
otherwise, if any):

               "THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE
          HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT
          OF 1933 (THE "ACT") AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD
          OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ASSIGNED, PLEDGED OR
          HYPOTHECATED UNLESS

                            8.
<PAGE>

          REGISTERED UNDER THE ACT OR UNLESS AN EXEMPTION
          FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE ACT IS
          AVAILABLE."

          (e)  Parent and the Surviving Corporation shall be entitled to deduct
and withhold from any consideration payable or otherwise deliverable to any
holder or former holder of Company Capital Stock pursuant to this Agreement such
amounts as Parent or the Surviving Corporation may be required to deduct or
withhold therefrom under the Code or under any provision of state, local or
foreign tax law. To the extent such amounts are so deducted or withheld, such
amounts shall be treated for all purposes under this Agreement as having been
paid to the Person to whom such amounts would otherwise have been paid.

          (f)  Neither Parent nor the Surviving Corporation shall be liable to
any holder or former holder of Company Capital Stock for any shares of Parent
Capital Stock (or dividends or distributions with respect thereto), or for any
cash amounts, delivered to any public official pursuant to any applicable
abandoned property, escheat or similar law.

          (g)  The Escrow Shares shall be maintained in an escrow fund (the
"Escrow Fund") for purposes of satisfying claims brought pursuant to Section 9
and for the period of time set forth in the Escrow Agreement.

     1.9  Appraisal Rights.

          (a)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
Agreement, any shares of Company Capital Stock for which, as of the Effective
Time, the holder thereof has demanded an appraisal of their value in accordance
with Section 262 of the Delaware General Corporation Law ("Dissenting Shares")
shall not be converted into or represent the right to receive Parent Capital
Stock in accordance with Section 1.5, and the holder or holders of such shares
shall be entitled only to such rights as may be granted to such holder or
holders in Section 262 of the Delaware General Corporation Law; provided,
however, that if the status of any such shares as Dissenting Shares shall not be
perfected in accordance with Section 262 of the Delaware General Corporation
Law, or if any such shares shall lose their status as Dissenting Shares then, as
of the later of the Effective Time or the time of the failure to perfect such
status or the loss of such status, such shares shall automatically be converted
into and shall represent only the right to receive (upon the surrender of the
certificate or certificates representing such shares) Parent Capital Stock in
accordance with Section 1.5.

          (b)  The Company shall give Parent (i) prompt notice of any written
demand received by the Company at or prior to any meeting of the Company's
stockholders pursuant to Section 5.2 hereof to require the Company to purchase
Dissenting Shares pursuant to Section 262 of the Delaware General Corporation
Law and of any other demand, notice or instrument delivered to the Company prior
to the Effective Time pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, and (ii)
the opportunity to participate in all negotiations and proceedings with respect
to any such demand, notice or instrument. The Company shall not make any payment
or settlement offer prior to the Effective Time with respect to any such demand
unless Parent shall have consented in writing to such payment or settlement
offer.

                                      9.
<PAGE>

          1.10 Tax Consequences. For federal income tax purposes, the Merger is
intended to constitute a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368 of the
Code. The parties to this Agreement hereby adopt this Agreement as a "plan of
reorganization" within the meaning of Sections 1.368-2(g) and 1.368-3(a) of the
United States Treasury Regulations.

          1.11 Accounting Treatment. For accounting purposes, the Merger is
intended to be treated as a "purchase."

          1.12 Further Action. If, at any time after the Effective Time, any
further action is determined by Parent to be necessary or desirable to carry out
the purposes of this Agreement or to vest the Surviving Corporation or Parent
with full right, title and possession of and to all rights and property of
Merger Sub and the Company, the officers and directors of the Surviving
Corporation and Parent shall be fully authorized (in the name of Merger Sub, in
the name of the Company and otherwise) to take such action.

SECTION 2. Representations and Warranties of the Company

               Except as set forth in the Company Disclosure Schedule, which
shall be arranged in paragraphs corresponding to the numbered and lettered
paragraphs contained in this Section 2, the Company represents and warrants, to
and for the benefit of the Parent Indemnitees, as follows:

     2.1 Due Organization; Subsidiaries; Etc.

               (a)  The Company has no Subsidiaries, except for the Entities
identified in Part 2.1(a)(i) of the Company Disclosure Schedule; and neither the
Company nor any of the other Entities identified in Part 2.1(a)(i) of the
Company Disclosure Schedule owns any capital stock of, or any equity interest of
any nature in, any other Entity, other than the Entities identified in Part
2.1(a)(ii) of the Company Disclosure Schedule. (The Company and each of its
Subsidiaries are referred to collectively in this Agreement as the "Acquired
Corporations.") Except as set forth in Part 2.1(a)(iii) of the Company
Disclosure Schedule, none of the Acquired Corporations has agreed or is
obligated to make, or is bound by any Contract under which it may become
obligated to make, any future investment in or capital contribution to any other
Entity. Except as set forth in Part 2.1(a)(iv) of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, none of the Acquired Corporations has, at any time, been a general
partner of, or has otherwise been liable for any of the debts or other
obligations of, any general partnership, limited partnership or other Entity.

               (b)  Each of the Acquired Corporations is a corporation duly
organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the
jurisdiction of its incorporation and has all necessary power and authority: (i)
to conduct its business in the manner in which its business is currently being
conducted; (ii) to own and use its assets in the manner in which its assets are
currently owned and used; and (iii) to perform its obligations under all
Contracts by which it is bound.

               (c)  Each of the Acquired Corporations is qualified to do
business as a foreign corporation, and is in good standing, under the laws of
all jurisdictions where the nature of its business requires such qualification
and where the failure to be so qualified would reasonably be expected to have a
Material Adverse Effect on such Acquired Corporation. Part 2.1(c) of the

                                      10.
<PAGE>

Company Disclosure Schedule accurately sets forth for each of the respective
Acquired Corporations each jurisdiction where such qualification is required.

               (d)  Except as set forth in Part 2.1(d) of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, the Company has not conducted any business under or otherwise used,
for any purpose or in any jurisdiction, any fictitious name, assumed name, trade
name or other name, other than the name "PPGx, Inc."

               (e)  Part 2.1(e) of the Company Disclosure Schedule accurately
sets forth for each of the respective Acquired Corporations: (i) the names of
the members of the board of directors, (ii) the names of the members of each
committee of the board of directors, and (iii) the names and titles of each of
the officers.

          2.2  Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws; Records. The Company has
delivered to Parent accurate and complete copies of: (1) the certificate of
incorporation, bylaws and other charter or similar organizational documents of
the respective Acquired Corporations, including all amendments thereto; (2)
stock records of each of the Acquired Corporations; and (3) except as set forth
in Part 2.2 of the Company Disclosure Schedule, the minutes and other records of
the meetings and other proceedings (including any actions taken by written
consent or otherwise without a meeting) of the stockholders, the board of
directors and all committees of the board of directors of each of the Acquired
Corporations. The stockholders and board of directors of the Company have
ratified, confirmed and approved all prior lawful action taken on behalf of the
Company by the Company's board of directors (in the case of ratification,
confirmation and approval by the Company's stockholders) and the Company's
officers (in the case of ratification, confirmation and approval by the
Company's board of directors). There has not been any violation of any of the
provisions of the certificate of incorporation, bylaws or other charter or
similar organizational documents of any of the Acquired Corporations, and none
of the Acquired Corporations has taken any action that is inconsistent in any
material respect with any resolution adopted by its stockholders, board of
directors or any committee of its board of directors. The books of account,
stock records, minute books and other records of each of the Acquired
Corporations are accurate, up-to-date and complete in all material respects, and
have been maintained in accordance with prudent business practices.

          2.3  Capitalization, Etc.

               (a)  As of the date of this Agreement, the authorized capital
stock of the Company consists of: (i) 15,000,000 shares of Company Common Stock,
of which 29,000 shares have been issued and are outstanding; and (ii) 10,000,000
shares of preferred stock (par value $0.001 per share), all of which have been
designated "Series A Preferred Stock," of which 10,000,000 shares have been
issued and are outstanding as of the date of this Agreement. Each outstanding
share of preferred stock is convertible into one share of Company Common Stock.
All of the outstanding shares of Company Common Stock and Company Series A
Preferred Stock have been duly authorized and validly issued, and are fully paid
and non-assessable. As of the date of this Agreement, there are no shares of
Company Capital Stock held by any of the other Acquired Corporations. Part
2.3(a) of the Company Disclosure Schedule provides an accurate and complete
description of the terms of each repurchase option which is held by the Company
and to which any of such shares is subject. Except as set forth in Part 2.3(a)
of the
                                      11.
<PAGE>

Company Disclosure Schedule, there is no Acquired Corporation Contract
relating to the voting or registration of, or restricting any Person from
purchasing, selling, pledging or otherwise disposing of (or granting any option
or similar right with respect to), any shares of Company Capital Stock. None of
the Acquired Corporations is under any obligation, or is bound by any Contract
pursuant to which it may become obligated, to repurchase, redeem or otherwise
acquire any outstanding shares of Company Capital Stock.

     (b) The Company has reserved 1,775,000 shares of Company Common Stock for
issuance under the Stock Plan, of which options to purchase 1,405,900 shares are
outstanding as of the date of this Agreement. Part 2.3(b) of the Company
Disclosure Schedule accurately sets forth, with respect to each Company Option
that is outstanding as of the date of this Agreement: (i) the name of the holder
of such Company Option; (ii) the total number of shares of Company Common Stock
that are subject to such Company Option and the number of shares of Company
Common Stock with respect to which such Company Option is immediately
exercisable; (iii) the date on which such Company Option was granted and the
term of such Company Option; (iv) the vesting schedule for such Company Option;
(v) the exercise price per share of Company Common Stock purchasable under such
Company Option; and (vi) whether such Company Option has been designated an
"incentive stock option" as defined in Section 422 of the Code.

     (c) Except as set forth in Part 2.3(b) or Part 2.3(c) of the Company
Disclosure Schedule, there is no: (i) outstanding subscription, option, call,
warrant or right (whether or not currently exercisable) to acquire any shares of
the capital stock or other securities of any of the Acquired Corporations; (ii)
outstanding security, instrument or obligation that is or may become convertible
into or exchangeable for any shares of the capital stock or other securities of
any of the Acquired Corporations; (iii) Contract under which any of the Acquired
Corporations is or may become obligated to sell or otherwise issue any shares of
its capital stock or any other securities; or (iv) to the Knowledge of the
Company, condition or circumstance that may give rise to or provide a basis for
the assertion of a claim by any Person to the effect that such Person is
entitled to acquire or receive any shares of capital stock or other securities
of the Acquired Corporations.

     (d) All outstanding shares of Company Common Stock and Company Series A
Preferred Stock, all outstanding Company Options and all outstanding shares of
capital stock of each Subsidiary of the Company have been issued and granted in
compliance with (i) all applicable securities laws and other applicable Legal
Requirements, and (ii) all requirements set forth in applicable Contracts.

     (e) Except as set forth in Part 2.3(e) of the Company Disclosure Schedule,
the Company has never repurchased, redeemed or otherwise reacquired any shares
of capital stock or other securities of the Company. All securities so
reacquired by the Company were reacquired in compliance with (i) the applicable
provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and all other applicable
Legal Requirements, and (ii) all requirements set forth in applicable restricted
stock purchase agreements and other applicable Contracts.

     (f) Except as set forth in Part 2.3(f) of the Company Disclosure Schedule,
all of the outstanding shares of capital stock or other ownership interests of
the Entities identified in Part 2.1(a) of the Company Disclosure Schedule that
have been issued to the Company have

                                      12.
<PAGE>

been duly authorized and are validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable
and are owned beneficially and of record by the Company, free and clear of any
Encumbrances.

     2.4  Financial Statements.

          (a)  The Company has delivered to Parent the following financial
statements and notes (collectively, the "Acquired Corporation Financial
Statements"):

               (i)  The audited consolidated balance sheets of the Acquired
Corporations as of December 31, 1999, and the related audited consolidated
income statements, consolidated statements of stockholders' equity and
consolidated statements of cash flows for the Acquired Corporations for the year
then ended, together with the notes thereto and the unqualified report and
opinion of Ernst & Young relating thereto; and

               (ii) the unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Acquired
Corporations as of September 30, 2000 (the "Unaudited Interim Balance Sheet"),
and the related unaudited consolidated income statement of the Acquired
Corporations for the nine months then ended.

          (b)  The Acquired Corporation Financial Statements are accurate and
complete in all material respects and present fairly the consolidated financial
position of the Acquired Corporations as of the respective dates thereof and the
consolidated results of operations and (in the case of the financial statements
referred to in Section 2.4(a)(i)) consolidated cash flows of the Acquired
Corporations for the periods covered thereby. The Acquired Corporation Financial
Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods covered (except
that the financial statements referred to in Section 2.4(a)(ii) do not contain
footnotes and are subject to normal and recurring year-end audit adjustments,
which will not, individually or in the aggregate, be material in magnitude).

     2.5  Absence of Changes. Except as set forth in Part 2.5 of the Company
Disclosure Schedule, since September 30, 2000:

          (a)  there has not been any material adverse change in the business,
     condition, assets, liabilities, operations or financial performance of the
     Acquired Corporations taken as a whole, and, to the Knowledge of the
     Company, no event has occurred that will, or could reasonably be expected
     to, have a Material Adverse Effect on the Acquired Corporations;

          (b)  there has not been any material loss, damage or destruction to,
     or any material interruption in the use of, any of the assets of any of the
     Acquired Corporations (whether or not covered by insurance);

          (c)  none of the Acquired Corporations has (i) declared, accrued, set
     aside or paid any dividend or made any other distribution in respect of any
     shares of capital stock, or (ii) repurchased, redeemed or otherwise
     reacquired any shares of capital stock or other securities;

                                      13.
<PAGE>

          (d)  none of the Acquired Corporations has sold, issued or authorized
     the issuance of (i) any capital stock or other security (except for Company
     Common Stock issued upon the exercise of outstanding Company Options), (ii)
     any option or right to acquire any capital stock or any other security
     (except for Company Options described in Part 2.3(b) of the Company
     Disclosure Schedule), or (iii) any instrument convertible into or
     exchangeable for any capital stock or other security;

          (e)  the Company has not amended or waived any of its rights under, or
     permitted the acceleration of vesting under, (i) any provision of the Stock
     Plan, (ii) any provision of any agreement evidencing any outstanding
     Company Option, or (iii) any restricted stock purchase agreement;

          (f)  there has been no amendment to the certificate of incorporation,
     bylaws or other charter or organizational documents of any of the Acquired
     Corporations, and none of the Acquired Corporations has effected or been a
     party to any Acquisition Transaction, recapitalization, reclassification of
     shares, stock split, reverse stock split or similar transaction;

          (g)  none of the Acquired Corporations has formed any Subsidiary or
     acquired any equity interest or other interest in any other Entity;

          (h)  none of the Acquired Corporations has made any capital
     expenditure which, when added to all other capital expenditures made on
     behalf of the Acquired Corporations since September 30, 2000, exceeds
     $500,000;

          (i)  none of the Acquired Corporations has amended or prematurely
     terminated, or waived any material right or remedy under, any Material
     Contract;

          (j)  none of the Acquired Corporations has (i) acquired, leased or
     licensed any right or other asset from any other Person, (ii) sold or
     otherwise disposed of, or leased or licensed, any right or other asset to
     any other Person, or (iii) waived or relinquished any right, except for
     immaterial rights or other immaterial assets acquired, leased, licensed or
     disposed of in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past
     practices;

          (k)  none of the Acquired Corporations has written off as
     uncollectible, or established any extraordinary reserve with respect to,
     any account receivable or other indebtedness;

          (l)  none of the Acquired Corporations has made any pledge of any of
     its assets or otherwise permitted any of its assets to become subject to
     any Encumbrance, except for pledges of immaterial assets made in the
     ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices;

          (m)  none of the Acquired Corporations has (i) lent money to any
     Person (other than pursuant to routine travel advances made to employees in
     the ordinary course of business), or (ii) incurred or guaranteed any
     indebtedness for borrowed money;

                                      14.
<PAGE>

          (n)  none of the Acquired Corporations has, outside the ordinary
     course of business or inconsistent with past practices, (i) established or
     adopted any Employee Benefit Plan, (ii) paid any bonus or made any profit-
     sharing or similar payment to, or increased the amount of the wages,
     salary, commissions, fringe benefits or other compensation or remuneration
     payable to, any of its directors, officers or employees, or (iii) hired any
     new employee;

          (o)  none of the Acquired Corporations has changed any of its methods
     of accounting or accounting practices in any respect;

          (p)  none of the Acquired Corporations has made any material Tax
     election;

          (q)  none of the Acquired Corporations has commenced or settled any
     Legal Proceeding;

          (r)  none of the Acquired Corporations has entered into any material
     transaction or taken any other material action outside the ordinary course
     of business or inconsistent with past practices; and

          (s)  none of the Acquired Corporations has agreed or committed to take
     any of the actions referred to in clauses "(c)" through "(r)" above.

     2.6  Title to Assets. The Acquired Corporations own, and have good and
marketable title to, all of the assets purported to be owned by them, including:
(i) all assets reflected on the Unaudited Interim Balance Sheet; (ii) all of the
rights of the Acquired Corporations under the Contracts identified in Part 2.10
of the Company Disclosure Schedule; and (iii) all other assets reflected in the
books and records of the Acquired Corporations as being owned by the Acquired
Corporations. Except as set forth in Part 2.6 of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, all of such assets are owned by the Acquired Corporations free and
clear of any liens or other Encumbrances, except for (x) any lien for current
taxes not yet due and payable, (y) minor liens that have arisen in the ordinary
course of business and that do not (in any case or in the aggregate) materially
detract from the value of the assets subject thereto or materially impair the
operations of any of the Acquired Corporations and (z) Permitted Encumbrances.

     2.7  Bank Accounts; Receivables.

          (a)  Part 2.7(a) of the Company Disclosure Schedule accurately sets
forth, with respect to each account or credit line maintained by or for the
benefit of each Acquired Corporation at any bank or financial institution:

               (i)    the name and location of the institution at which such
account or credit line is maintained;

               (ii)   the name in which such account or credit line is
maintained and the account number of such account or credit line;

               (iii)  a description of such account or credit line and the
purpose for which such account or credit line is used;

                                      15.
<PAGE>

               (iv)  the current balance in such account or amount owed under
such credit line;

               (v)   the rate of interest being earned on the funds in such
account or charged under such credit line; and

               (vi)  the names of all individuals authorized to draw on or make
withdrawals from such account or to borrow against such credit line.

          (b)  Except as set forth in Part 2.7(b)(i) of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, all existing accounts receivable of the Acquired Corporations
(including those accounts receivable reflected on the Unaudited Interim Balance
Sheet that have not yet been collected and those accounts receivable that have
arisen since September 30, 2000 and have not yet been collected) represent valid
obligations of customers of the Acquired Corporations arising from bona fide
transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business. Part 2.7(b)(ii) of
the Company Disclosure Schedule accurately identifies, and provides an accurate
and complete breakdown of the revenues received from, each customer or other
Person that accounted for (i) more than $175,000 of the consolidated gross
revenues of the Acquired Corporations in the fiscal year ended December 31,
1999, or (ii) more than $175,000 of the consolidated gross revenues of the
Acquired Corporations in the nine-month period ended September 30, 2000 (each, a
"Material Customer")(it being understood that for purposes of clauses "(i)" and
"(ii)" of this sentence, a "Material Customer" of an Acquired Corporation
includes any Person to which PPD provides "Designated Services" or "Designated
Products" (as such terms are defined in the Distributor Agreement dated February
1, 2000 between the Company and PPD (the "Distributor Agreement")) in accordance
with the terms of the Distributor Agreement). Except as set forth in Part
2.7(c)(iii) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, the Company has not received any
notice or other communication (in writing or otherwise), and, to the Knowledge
of the Company, has not received any other information, indicating that (a) any
Material Customer is likely to cease dealing with the Company or (b) any
Material Customer is dissatisfied in any material respect with the operation of
any product, system or program currently maintained, sold or licensed by any of
the Acquired Corporations or with any services performed by any of the Acquired
Corporations since January 1, 1999.

     2.8  Equipment; Leasehold.

          (a)  All material items of equipment and other tangible assets owned
by or leased to the Acquired Corporations are, in the reasonable judgment of the
Acquired Corporations, adequate for the uses to which they are being put, are in
good condition and repair (ordinary wear and tear excepted) and are adequate for
the conduct of the business of the Acquired Corporations in the manner in which
such businesses are currently being conducted.

          (b)  None of the Acquired Corporations own any real property or any
interest in real property, except for the leaseholds created under the real
property leases identified in Part 2.8 of the Company Disclosure Schedule.

     2.9  Proprietary Assets.

                                      16.
<PAGE>

          (a)  Part 2.9(a)(i) of the Company Disclosure Schedule sets forth,
with respect to each Acquired Corporation Proprietary Asset registered with any
Governmental Body or for which an application has been filed with any
Governmental Body, (i) a brief description of such Acquired Corporation
Proprietary Asset, and (ii) the names of the jurisdictions covered by the
applicable registration or application. Part 2.9(a)(ii) of the Company
Disclosure Schedule identifies and provides a brief description of each
Proprietary Asset (other than trade secrets, know-how or customer list) owned by
any of the Acquired Corporations. Part 2.9(a)(iii) of the Company Disclosure
Schedule identifies and provides a brief description of, and identifies any
ongoing royalty or payment obligations in excess of $10,000 annually with
respect to, each Proprietary Asset that is licensed or otherwise made available
to any of the Acquired Corporations by any Person and is material to the
business of the Acquired Corporations (except for any Proprietary Asset that is
licensed to any Acquired Corporation under any third party software license
generally available to the public), and identifies the Contract under which such
Proprietary Asset is being licensed or otherwise made available to such Acquired
Corporation. Except as set forth in Part 2.9(a)(iv) of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, each of the Acquired Corporations has good and valid title to, and
exclusive ownership of or exclusive license to use, all of their respective
Proprietary Assets identified or required to be identified in Parts 2.9(a)(i)
and 2.9(a)(ii) of the Company Disclosure Schedule that are material to the
conduct of the business of the Acquired Corporations, free and clear of all
Encumbrances. All of the rights of the Acquired Corporations in all of such
Proprietary Assets are freely transferable, and each of the Acquired
Corporations has a valid right to use, license and otherwise exploit all
Proprietary Assets identified in Part 2.9(a)(iii) of the Company Disclosure
Schedule. Except as set forth in Part 2.9(a)(v) of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, none of the Acquired Corporations has developed jointly with any other
Person any Acquired Corporation Proprietary Asset with respect to which such
other Person has any rights. Except as set forth in Part 2.9(a)(vi) of the
Company Disclosure Schedule, there is no Acquired Corporation Contract pursuant
to which any Person has any right (whether or not currently exercisable) to use,
license or otherwise exploit any Acquired Corporation Proprietary Asset or any
Acquired Corporation Proprietary Asset that may be developed in the future.

          (b)  Except as set forth in Part 2.9(b)(i) of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, all such Proprietary Assets have been duly registered with, filed with
or issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the United States
Register of Copyrights, or the corresponding offices of other jurisdictions as
identified in the Company Disclosure Schedule, and have been properly maintained
and renewed in accordance with all applicable provisions of law and
administrative regulations of the United States and each such jurisdiction and,
except as stated in Part 2.9(b)(ii) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, all of
the rights and Proprietary Assets of the Acquired Corporations thereunder are
freely assignable without the consent of any Person.

          (c)  Part 2.9(c)(i) of the Company Disclosure Schedule sets forth all
licenses or other Contracts under which the Acquired Corporations are granted
rights in Proprietary Assets. Except as set forth in Part 2.9(c)(ii), all such
licenses or other Contracts are in full force and effect, there is no material
default by any Acquired Corporation or, to the Knowledge of the Company, by any
other party thereto, and, except as set forth in Part 2.9(c)(iii), all of the
rights of the Acquired Corporations thereunder are freely assignable without the
consent of any Person. Except as set forth in Part 2.9(c)(iv), to the Knowledge
of the Company, the licensors under said

                                      17.
<PAGE>

licenses and other Contracts have and had all requisite power and authority to
grant the rights purported to be conferred thereby. True and complete copies of
all such licenses or other Contracts, and any amendments thereto, have been
provided to Parent.

          (d)  Each of the Acquired Corporations has taken reasonable measures
and precautions to protect and maintain the confidentiality, secrecy and value
of all material Acquired Corporation Proprietary Assets (except Acquired
Corporation Proprietary Assets whose value would be unimpaired by disclosure).
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except as set forth in Part
2.9(d) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, (i) each current or former employee
of any Acquired Corporation who is or was involved in, or who has contributed
to, the creation or development of any material Acquired Corporation Proprietary
Asset has executed and delivered to such Acquired Corporation an agreement
(containing no exceptions to or exclusions from the scope of its coverage) that
is substantially identical to the form of the Company's Employment, Confidential
Information and Invention Assignment Agreement previously delivered by the
Company to Parent, and (ii) each current and former consultant and independent
contractor to any Acquired Corporation who is or was involved in, or who has
contributed to, the creation or development of any material Acquired Corporation
Proprietary Asset has executed and delivered to the Company an agreement
(containing no material exceptions to or exclusions from the scope of its
coverage) that is substantially identical to the form of the Company's
Employment, Confidential Information and Invention Assignment Agreement
previously delivered to Parent. No current or former employee, officer,
director, stockholder, consultant or independent contractor has any right, claim
or interest in or with respect to any material Acquired Corporation Proprietary
Asset.

          (e)  To the Knowledge of the Company: (i) all patents, trademarks,
service marks and copyrights held by any of the Acquired Corporations are valid,
enforceable and subsisting; (ii) none of the Acquired Corporation Proprietary
Assets and no Proprietary Asset that is currently being developed by any of the
Acquired Corporations (either by itself or with any other Person)
misappropriates any Proprietary Asset owned or used by any other Person, and the
use of Acquired Corporation Proprietary Assets in their intended or contemplated
manner does not require a license under or other rights to use any Proprietary
Asset owned by any other Person; (iii) none of the products, formula,
compositions of matter, inventions, designs, technology, proprietary rights or
other intellectual property rights or intangible assets that is or has been
designed, created, developed, assembled, manufactured or sold by any of the
Acquired Corporations is infringing, misappropriating or making any unlawful or
unauthorized use of any Proprietary Asset owned or used by any other Person, and
none of such products has at any time infringed, misappropriated or made any
unlawful or unauthorized use of any Proprietary Asset owned or used by any other
Person; (iv) except as set forth in Part 2.9(e) of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, none of the Acquired Corporations has received any notice or other
communication (in writing or otherwise) of any actual, alleged, possible or
potential infringement, misappropriation or unlawful or unauthorized use of, any
Proprietary Asset owned or used by any other Person; and (v) no other Person is
infringing, misappropriating or making any unlawful or unauthorized use of any
material Acquired Corporation Proprietary Asset.

          (f)  To the Knowledge of the Company, the Acquired Corporation
Proprietary Assets constitute all the Proprietary Assets necessary to enable the
Acquired Corporations to conduct their business in the manner in which such
business is presently being conducted.

                                      18.
<PAGE>

Except as set forth in Part 2.9(f) of the Company Disclosure Schedule, none of
the Acquired Corporations has (i) licensed any of the Acquired Corporation
Proprietary Assets to any Person on an exclusive basis, or (ii) entered into any
covenant not to compete or Contract limiting or purporting to limit the ability
of any Acquired Corporation to exploit fully any material Acquired Corporation
Proprietary Assets or to transact business in any market or geographical area or
with any Person.

          (g)  Notwithstanding the generality of anything stated in this Section
2.9, the Company owns (and immediately after the Effective Time, the Surviving
Corporation shall own), subject to Third-Party Rights, the entire right, title
and interest in and to the DNA Sample Library and any information, including but
not limited to, genotypic and phenotypic information, derived or developed by
the Company from the DNA Sample Library. All right, title and interest owned by
the Company in and to the DNA Sample Library and information derived or
developed by the Company from the DNA Sample Library is freely transferable,
subject only to the Third Party Rights. For purposes of this Agreement: (1) the
"DNA Sample Library" means the library of DNA specimens identified in Part
2.9(g) of the Company Disclosure Schedule; and (2) "Third-Party Rights" means
those rights retained by Persons other than the Company and/or the Major
Stockholders pursuant to those Contracts identified in Part 2.9(g) of the
Company Disclosure Schedule.

     2.10 Contracts.

          (a)  Part 2.10 of the Company Disclosure Schedule identifies each
Acquired Corporation Contract that constitutes a "Material Contract" as of the
date of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, each of the following
Contracts (to the extent that any of the Acquired Corporations has (or may have)
any liability or obligation thereunder or with respect thereto after the date of
this Agreement) shall be deemed to constitute a "Material Contract":

               (i)    each Contract relating to the employment of, or the
performance of services by, any employee or consultant (other than any offer
letter provided to any employee of any of the Acquired Corporations which
provides for "at will" employment);

               (ii)   each Contract pursuant to which any of the Acquired
Corporations is or may become obligated to make any severance, termination or
similar payment to any current or former employee or director; and any Contract
pursuant to which any of the Acquired Corporations is or may become obligated to
make any bonus or similar payment (other than payments in respect of salary or
commissions) in excess of $15,000 to any current or former employee or director;

               (iii)  each Contract with a face value of $25,000 (A) with any
customer of any of the Acquired Corporations except for standard purchase
orders; or (B) with respect to the distribution or marketing of any product of
any of the Acquired Corporations;

               (iv)   each Contract relating to the acquisition, transfer,
development, sharing or license of any Acquired Corporation Proprietary Asset
(except for any Contract pursuant to which any Proprietary Asset is licensed by
any of the Acquired Corporations to any Person (other than a Major Stockholder)
on a non-exclusive basis);

                                      19.
<PAGE>

               (v)    each Contract which provides for indemnification of any
officer, director, employee or agent;

               (vi)   each Contract creating or relating to any partnership or
joint venture or any sharing of revenues, profits, losses, costs or liabilities;

               (vii)  each Contract relating to the purchase or sale of any
product or other asset by or to, or the performance of any services by or for,
any Related Party;

               (viii) each Contract imposing any restriction on the right or
ability of any Acquired Corporation (A) to compete with any other Person, (B) to
acquire any material product or other asset or any services from any other
Person, (C) to solicit, hire or retain any Person as an employee, consultant or
independent contractor, (D) to develop, sell, supply, distribute, offer, support
or service any product or any technology or other asset to or for any other
Person, (E) to perform services for any other Person or (F) to transact business
or deal in any other manner with any other Person;

               (ix)   each Contract creating or involving any agency
relationship, distribution arrangement or franchise relationship;

               (x)    each Contract relating to the creation of any Encumbrance
(except Permitted Encumbrances) with respect to any asset of any of the Acquired
Corporations;

               (xi)   each Contract (A) relating to the acquisition, issuance,
voting, registration, sale or transfer of any securities, other than pursuant to
the Company Options, (B) providing any Person with any preemptive right, right
of participation, right of maintenance or any similar right with respect to any
securities or (C) providing any of the Acquired Corporations with any right of
first refusal with respect to, or right to purchase or otherwise acquire, any
securities;

               (xii)  each Contract incorporating or relating to any guaranty or
any indemnity or similar obligation, except for Contracts entered into in the
ordinary course of business;

               (xiii) each Contract relating to any currency hedging;

               (xiv)  each Contract imposing any confidentiality obligation on
any of the Acquired Corporations other than nondisclosure agreements entered
into in the ordinary course of business;

               (xv)   each Contract to which any Governmental Body is a party;
and any other Contract directly or indirectly benefiting any Governmental Body
(including any subcontract or other Contract between any Acquired Corporation
and any contractor or subcontractor to any Governmental Body), except for
Contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business for the license,
maintenance or service of products;

                                      20.
<PAGE>

               (xvi)   each Contract with obligations in excess of $50,000 that
has a term of more than 60 days and that may not be terminated by an Acquired
Corporation (without penalty) within 60 days after the delivery of a termination
notice by such Acquired Corporation;

               (xvii)  each Contract that contemplates or involves the payment
or delivery of cash or other consideration in an amount or having a value in
excess of $50,000 in the aggregate, or contemplates or involves the performance
of services having a value in excess of $50,000 in the aggregate;

               (xviii) each Contract requiring that any of the Acquired
Corporations give any notice or provide any information to any Person prior to
considering or accepting any Acquisition Proposal or similar proposal, or prior
to entering into any discussions, agreement, arrangement or understanding
relating to any Acquisition Transaction or similar transaction;

               (xix)   each Contract that (A) contemplates or involves the
payment or delivery of cash or other consideration by any of the Acquired
Corporations in an amount or having a value in excess of $100,000 in the
aggregate, (B) contemplates or involves the payment or delivery of cash or other
consideration to any of the Acquired Corporations in an amount or having a value
in excess of $100,000 in the aggregate or (C) contemplates or involves the
performance of services by any of the Acquired Corporations having a value in
excess of $100,000 in the aggregate;

               (xx)    each Contract that could reasonably be expected to have a
material effect on (A) the business, condition, capitalization, assets,
liabilities, operations, financial performance of any of the Acquired
Corporations or (B) the ability of the Company to perform any of its obligations
under, or to consummate any of the transactions contemplated by, this Agreement;
and

               (xxi)   each Contract (not otherwise identified in clauses "(i)"
through "(xx)" of this sentence) with a Major Stockholder and/or one or more of
its Subsidiaries.

          (b)  The Company has delivered to Parent and to Cooley Godward LLP an
accurate and complete copy of each Material Contract.

          (c)  Each Acquired Corporation Contract is valid and in full force and
effect, and is enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to (i) laws of
general application relating to bankruptcy, insolvency and the relief of
debtors, and (ii) applicable Legal Requirements governing specific performance,
injunctive relief and other equitable remedies, except where the failure to be
valid and binding and in full force and effect would not individually or in the
aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect on the Acquired Corporations.

          (d)  Except as set forth in Part 2.10(d) of the Company Disclosure
Schedule: (i) none of the Acquired Corporations has violated or breached, or
committed any default under, any Acquired Corporation Contract, except for
violations, breaches and defaults that have not had and would not reasonably be
expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on the Acquired Corporations; and, to
the Knowledge of the Company, no other Person has violated or breached, or
committed any default under, any Acquired Corporation Contract, except for
violations, breaches or defaults that have not had and would not reasonably be
expected to have a Material

                                      21.
<PAGE>

Adverse Effect on the Acquired Corporations; (ii) to the Knowledge of the
Company, no event has occurred, and no circumstance or condition exists, that
(with or without notice or lapse of time) will, or would reasonably be expected
to, (A) result in a violation or breach of any of the provisions of any Acquired
Corporation Contract, (B) give any Person the right to declare a default or
exercise any remedy under any Acquired Corporation Contract, (C) give any Person
the right to receive or require a rebate, chargeback or penalty under any
Acquired Corporation Contract, (D) give any Person the right to accelerate the
maturity or performance of any Acquired Corporation Contract, or (E) give any
Person the right to cancel, terminate or modify any Acquired Corporation
Contract, except in each such case for defaults, acceleration rights,
termination rights and other rights that have not had and would not reasonably
be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on the Acquired Corporations; and
(iii) since January 1, 1999, none of the Acquired Corporations has received any
notice or other communication regarding any actual or possible violation or
breach of, or default under, any Acquired Corporation Contract, except in each
such case for defaults, acceleration rights, termination rights and other rights
that have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Material
Adverse Effect on the Acquired Corporations.

     2.11  Liabilities. None of the Acquired Corporations has accrued,
contingent or other liabilities of any nature, either matured or unmatured
(whether or not required to be reflected in financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and whether due or to become
due), except for: (a) liabilities identified as such in the "liabilities" column
of the Unaudited Interim Balance Sheet; (b) accounts payable or accrued salaries
that have been incurred by the Acquired Corporations since September 30, 2000 in
the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices; (c)
liabilities under the Acquired Corporation Contracts identified in Part 2.10 of
the Company Disclosure Schedule, to the extent the nature and magnitude of such
liabilities can be specifically ascertained by reference to the text of such
Acquired Corporation Contracts; and (d) the liabilities identified in Part 2.11
of the Company Disclosure Schedule.

     2.12  Compliance with Legal Requirements. Each of the Acquired Corporations
is, and has at all times since January 1, 1999 been, in compliance with all
applicable Legal Requirements, except where the failure to comply with such
Legal Requirements has not had and will not have a Material Adverse Effect on
the Acquired Corporations. Except as set forth in Part 2.12 of the Company
Disclosure Schedule, since January 1, 1999, none of the Acquired Corporations
has received any notice or other communication from any Governmental Body
regarding any actual or possible violation (or of any pending or threatened
investigation, inspection, audit or other proceeding by any Governmental Body
involving allegations of any violation) of, or failure to comply with, any Legal
Requirement. To the Knowledge of the Company, no investigation, inspection,
audit or other proceeding by Governmental Body involving allegations of any
violation of any Legal Requirement is contemplated by any such Governmental
Body.

     2.13  Governmental Authorizations and Facility Certifications.

           (a)   Part 2.13(a) of the Company Disclosure Schedule identifies each
material Governmental Authorization held by the Acquired Corporations (and
contains a summary description of each such Governmental Authorization and,
where applicable, specifies the date

                                      22.
<PAGE>

issued, granted or applied for, the expiration date and the current status
thereof), and the Company has delivered to Parent accurate and complete copies
of all Governmental Authorizations identified in Part 2.13(a) of the Company
Disclosure Schedule.

            (b) The Governmental Authorizations identified in Part 2.13(a) of
the Company Disclosure Schedule are valid and in full force and effect (and, to
the Knowledge of the Company, no revocation, withdrawal, suspension,
cancellation, termination or modification thereof has been threatened), and
collectively constitute all Governmental Authorizations necessary to enable the
Acquired Corporations to conduct their respective businesses in the manner in
which such businesses are currently being conducted, except where the failure to
hold such Governmental Authorizations has not had, and based on applicable Legal
Requirements as in effect on the date hereof would not reasonably be expected to
have, a Material Adverse Effect on the Acquired Corporations. Each of the
Acquired Corporations is, and at all times since January 1, 1999 has been, in
substantial compliance with the terms and requirements of such Governmental
Authorizations, except where the failure to be in compliance with the terms and
requirements of such Governmental Authorizations has not had, and based on
applicable Legal Requirements as in effect on the date hereof would not
reasonably be expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect on any of the Acquired
Corporations. Since January 1, 1999, none of the Acquired Corporations has
received any written notice from any Governmental Body regarding (a) any actual
or possible violation of or failure to comply with any term or requirement of
any material Governmental Authorization, or (b) any actual or possible
revocation, withdrawal, suspension, cancellation, termination or modification of
any material Governmental Authorization.

            (c) The certifications identified in Part 2.13(c) of the Company
Disclosure Schedule are valid and in full force and effect (and, to the
Knowledge of the Company, no revocation, withdrawal, suspension, cancellation,
termination, modification or limitation thereof has been threatened). Each of
the Acquired Corporations is, and at all times since January 1, 1999 has been,
in substantial compliance with the terms and requirements of such
certifications, except where the failure to be in compliance with the terms and
requirements of such certifications has not had, and based on the terms of such
certifications would not reasonably be expected to have, a Material Adverse
Effect on any of the Acquired Corporations. Since January 1, 1999, none of the
Acquired Corporations has received any written notice from the Person that
issued each such certification regarding (a) any actual or possible violation of
or failure to comply with any term or requirement of such certification, or (b)
any actual or possible revocation, withdrawal, suspension, cancellation,
termination, modification or limitation of such certification.

     2.14   Tax Matters.

            (a) Each of the Tax Returns relating to income taxes required to be
filed by or on behalf of the respective Acquired Corporations with any
Governmental Body with respect to any taxable period ending on or before the
Closing has been or will be filed on or before the applicable due date
(including any extensions of such due date). Each of the Tax Returns required to
be filed by or on behalf of the respective Acquired Corporations with any
Governmental Body with respect to any taxable period ending on or before the
Closing (the "Acquired Corporation Returns") has been, or will be when filed,
accurately and completely

                                      23.
<PAGE>

prepared in all material respects in compliance with all applicable Legal
Requirements. All amounts shown on the Acquired Corporation Returns to be due on
or before the Closing have been or will be paid on or before the Closing. The
Company has delivered to Parent accurate and complete copies of all Acquired
Corporation Returns filed since December 31, 1999 which have been requested by
Parent.

            (b) The Financial Statements of the Acquired Corporations fully
accrue all actual and contingent liabilities for Taxes with respect to all
periods through the dates thereof in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. The Acquired Corporations will establish, in the ordinary
course of business and consistent with its past practices, reserves adequate for
the payment of all Taxes for the period from September 30, 2000 through the
Closing, and the Company will disclose the dollar amount of such reserves to
Parent on or prior to the Closing.

            (c) No Acquired Corporation Return has ever been examined or audited
by any Governmental Body. Except as set forth in Part 2.14 of the Company
Disclosure Schedule, there have been no examinations or audits of any Acquired
Corporation Returns. The Company has delivered to Parent accurate and complete
copies of all audit reports and similar documents (to which the Company has
access) relating to the Acquired Corporation Returns. Except as set forth in
Part 2.14 of the Company Disclosure Schedule, no extension or waiver of the
limitation period applicable to any of the Acquired Corporation Returns has been
granted (by the Company or any other Person), and no such extension or waiver
has been requested from any Acquired Corporation.

            (d) Except as set forth in Part 2.14 of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, no claim or Proceeding is, to the Knowledge of the Company, pending or
has been threatened against or with respect to any Acquired Corporation in
respect of any Tax. There are no unsatisfied liabilities for Taxes (including
liabilities for interest, additions to tax and penalties thereon and related
expenses) with respect to any notice of deficiency or similar document received
by any of the Acquired Corporations with respect to any Tax (other than
liabilities for Taxes asserted under any such notice of deficiency or similar
document which are being contested in good faith by the Acquired Corporations
and with respect to which adequate reserves for payment have been established).
There are no liens for Taxes upon any of the assets of any of the Acquired
Corporations except liens for current Taxes not yet due and payable. None of the
Acquired Corporations has entered into or become bound by any agreement or
consent pursuant to Section 341(f) of the Code. None of the Acquired
Corporations has been, and none of the Acquired Corporations will be, required
to include any adjustment in taxable income for any tax period (or portion
thereof) pursuant to Section 481 or 263A of the Code or any comparable provision
under state or foreign Tax laws as a result of transactions or events occurring,
or accounting methods employed, prior to the Closing.

            (e) There is no agreement, plan, arrangement or other Contract
covering any employee or independent contractor or former employee or
independent contractor of any of the Acquired Corporations that, considered
individually or considered collectively with any other such Contracts, will, or
could reasonably be expected to, give rise directly or indirectly to the payment
of any amount that would not be deductible pursuant to Section 280G or Section
162 of

                                      24.
<PAGE>

the Code. None of the Acquired Corporations are, or have ever been, a party to
or bound by any tax indemnity agreement, tax-sharing agreement, tax allocation
agreement or similar Contract.

     2.15   Employee and Labor Matters; Benefit Plans.

            (a) Part 2.15(a) of the Company Disclosure Schedule identifies each
bonus, deferred compensation, incentive compensation, stock purchase, stock
option, severance pay, termination pay, hospitalization, medical, life or other
insurance, supplemental unemployment benefits, profit-sharing, pension or
retirement plan, program or agreement (collectively, the "Plans") sponsored,
maintained, contributed to or required to be contributed to by any of the
Acquired Corporations for the benefit of any employee of any of the Acquired
Corporations ("Employee"), except for (1) Plans which would not require any of
the Acquired Corporations to make payments or provide benefits having a value in
excess of $25,000 in the aggregate and (2) except for the Company's 2000 Merit
Compensation Plan and 2000 Incentive Compensation Plant.

            (b) Except as set forth in Part 2.15(b) of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, none of the Acquired Corporations maintains, sponsors or contributes
to, and, to the Knowledge of the Company, none of the Acquired Corporations has
at any time in the past maintained, sponsored or contributed to, any employee
pension benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(2) of the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), whether or not excluded from
coverage under specific Titles or Merger Subtitles of ERISA) for the benefit of
Employees or former Employees (a "Pension Plan").

            (c) Each of the Acquired Corporations maintains, sponsors or
contributes only to those employee welfare benefit plans (as defined in Section
3(1) of ERISA, whether or not excluded from coverage under specific Titles or
Merger Subtitles of ERISA) for the benefit of Employees or former Employees
which are described in Part 2.15(c) of the Company Disclosure Schedule (the
"Welfare Plans"), none of which is a multiemployer plan (within the meaning of
Section 3(37) of ERISA).

            (d) With respect to each Plan, the Company has delivered or made
available to Parent:

                (i)   an accurate and complete copy of such Plan (including all
amendments thereto);

                (ii)  an accurate and complete copy of the annual report, if
required under ERISA, with respect to such Plan for the last two years;

                (iii) an accurate and complete copy of the most recent summary
plan description, together with each Summary of Material Modifications, if
required under ERISA, with respect to such Plan, and all material employee
communications relating to such Plan;

                (iv)  if such Plan is funded through a trust or any third party
funding vehicle, an accurate and complete copy of the trust or other funding
agreement (including all amendments thereto) and accurate and complete copies
the most recent financial statements thereof;

                                      25.
<PAGE>

                (v)  accurate and complete copies of all Contracts relating to
such Plan, including service provider agreements, insurance contracts, minimum
premium contracts, stop-loss agreements, investment management agreements,
subscription and participation agreements and recordkeeping agreements; and

                (vi) an accurate and complete copy of the most recent
determination letter received from the Internal Revenue Service with respect to
such Plan (if such Plan is intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the
Code).

            (e) None of the Acquired Corporations are required to be, and, to
the Knowledge of the Company, has ever been required to be, treated as a single
employer with any other Person under Section 4001(b)(1) of ERISA or Section
414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code. None of the Acquired Corporations has ever
been a member of an "affiliated service group" within the meaning of Section
414(m) of the Code. To the Knowledge of the Company, none of the Acquired
Corporations has ever made a complete or partial withdrawal from a multiemployer
plan, as such term is defined in Section 3(37) of ERISA, resulting in
"withdrawal liability," as such term is defined in Section 4201 of ERISA
(without regard to subsequent reduction or waiver of such liability under either
Section 4207 or 4208 of ERISA).

            (f) None of the Acquired Corporations has any plan or commitment to
create any additional Welfare Plan or any Pension Plan, or to modify or change
any existing Welfare Plan or Pension Plan (other than to comply with applicable
law) in a manner that would affect any Employee.

            (g) Except as set forth in Part 2.15(g) of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, no Welfare Plan provides death, medical or health benefits (whether or
not insured) with respect to any current or former Employee after any such
Employee's termination of service (other than (i) benefit coverage mandated by
applicable law, including coverage provided pursuant to Section 4980B of the
Code, (ii) deferred compensation benefits accrued as liabilities on the
Unaudited Interim Balance Sheet, and (iii) benefits the full cost of which are
borne by current or former Employees (or the Employees' beneficiaries)).

            (h) With respect to each of the Welfare Plans constituting a group
health plan within the meaning of Section 4980B(g)(2) of the Code, the
provisions of Section 4980B of the Code ("COBRA") have been complied with in all
material respects.

            (i) Each of the Plans has been operated and administered in all
material respects in accordance with applicable Legal Requirements, including
but not limited to ERISA and the Code.

            (j) Each of the Plans intended to be qualified under Section 401(a)
of the Code has received a favorable determination from the Internal Revenue
Service, and the Company is not aware of any reason why any such determination
letter should be revoked.

            (k) Except as set forth in Part 2.15(k) of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, neither the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement, nor
the consummation of the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by
this Agreement, will result in any payment (including any bonus, golden
parachute or severance payment) to any current or former

                                      26.
<PAGE>

Employee or director of any of the Acquired Corporations (whether or not under
any Plan), or materially increase the benefits payable under any Plan, or result
in any acceleration of the time of payment or vesting of any such benefits.

            (l) The Company has provided Parent a list of all salaried employees
of each of the Acquired Corporations as of the date of this Agreement, and such
list correctly reflects, in all material respects, their salaries, any other
compensation payable to them (including compensation payable pursuant to bonus,
deferred compensation or commission arrangements), their dates of employment and
their positions. None of the Acquired Corporations is a party to any collective
bargaining contract or other Contract with a labor union representing any of its
Employees. All of the employees of the Acquired Corporations are "at will"
employees.

            (m) Part 2.15(m) of the Company Disclosure Schedule identifies each
Employee who is not fully available to perform work because of disability or
other leave and sets forth the basis of such leave and the anticipated date of
return to full service.

            (n) Each of the Acquired Corporations is in compliance in all
material respects with all applicable Legal Requirements and Contracts relating
to employment, employment practices, wages, bonuses and terms and conditions of
employment, including employee compensation matters.

            (o) Except as set forth in Part 2.15(o) of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, each of the Acquired Corporations has good labor relations and the
Company has no Knowledge that (i) the consummation of the Merger or any of the
other transactions contemplated by this Agreement will have a material adverse
effect on the labor relations of any of the Acquired Corporations, or (ii) any
officer or head of facility of any of the Acquired Corporations intends to
terminate his or her employment with such Acquired Corporation.

     2.16   Environmental Matters. Each of the Acquired Corporations is in
compliance in all material respects with all applicable Environmental Laws,
which compliance includes the possession by each of the Acquired Corporations of
all permits and other Governmental Authorizations required under applicable
Environmental Laws, and compliance with the terms and conditions thereof. None
of the Acquired Corporations has received any notice or other communication (in
writing or otherwise), whether from a Governmental Body, citizens group,
employee or otherwise, that alleges that any of the Acquired Corporations are
not in compliance with any Environmental Law, and, to the Knowledge of the
Company, there are no circumstances that may prevent or interfere with the
compliance of the Acquired Corporations with any Environmental Law in the
future. To the Knowledge of the Company, no current or prior owner of any
property leased or controlled by any of the Acquired Corporations has received
any notice or other communication (in writing or otherwise), whether from a
Government Body, citizens group, employee or otherwise, that alleges that such
current or prior owner or any of the Acquired Corporations is not in compliance
with any Environmental Law. All Governmental Authorizations currently held by
the Acquired Corporations pursuant to Environmental Laws are identified in Part
2.16 of the Company Disclosure Schedule. (For purposes of this Section 2.16: (i)
"Environmental Law" means any federal, state, local or foreign Legal Requirement
relating to pollution or protection of human health or the environment
(including ambient air, surface water, ground water, land surface or subsurface
strata), including

                                      27.
<PAGE>

any law or regulation relating to emissions, discharges, releases or threatened
releases of Materials of Environmental Concern, or otherwise relating to the
manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal,
transport or handling of Materials of Environmental Concern; and (ii) "Materials
of Environmental Concern" include chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes,
toxic substances, petroleum and petroleum products and any other substance that
is now or hereafter regulated by any Environmental Law or that is otherwise a
danger to health, reproduction or the environment.)

     2.17   Insurance. Part 2.17 of the Company Disclosure Schedule identifies
all insurance policies maintained by, at the expense of or for the benefit of
each of the Acquired Corporations and identifies any material claims made
thereunder since January 1, 1999, and the Company has delivered to Parent
accurate and complete copies of the insurance policies identified on Part 2.17
of the Company Disclosure Schedule. Each of the insurance policies identified in
Part 2.17 of the Company Disclosure Schedule is in full force and effect. Since
December 31, 1999, none of the Acquired Corporations has received any notice or
other communication regarding any actual or possible (a) cancellation or
invalidation of any insurance policy, (b) refusal of any coverage or rejection
of any claim under any insurance policy, or (c) material adjustment in the
amount of the premiums payable with respect to any insurance policy.

     2.18   Related Party Transactions. Except as set forth in Part 2.18 of the
Company Disclosure Schedule: (a) no Related Party has, and no Related Party has
at any time since December 31, 1999 had, any direct or indirect interest in any
material asset used in or otherwise relating to the business of any of the
Acquired Corporations; (b) no Related Party is, or has at any time since
December 31, 1999 been, indebted to any of the Acquired Corporations; (c) since
December 31, 1999, no Related Party has entered into, or has had any direct or
indirect financial interest in, any material Contract, transaction or business
dealing involving any of the Acquired Corporations; (d) no Related Party is
competing, or has at any time since December 31, 1999 competed, directly or
indirectly, with any of the Acquired Corporations; and (e) no Related Party has
any claim or right against any of the Acquired Corporations (other than rights
under Company Options and rights to receive compensation for services performed
as an employee of the Company). (For purposes of this Section 2.18, each of the
following shall be deemed to be a "Related Party": (i) each individual who is,
or who has at any time since December 31, 1999 been, an officer of any of the
Acquired Corporations; (ii) each member of the immediate family of each of the
individuals referred to in clause "(i)" above; and (iii) any trust or other
Entity (other than the Acquired Corporations) in which any one of the
individuals referred to in clauses "(i)" or "(ii)" above holds (or in which more
than one of such individuals collectively hold), beneficially or otherwise, a
material voting, proprietary or equity interest.)

     2.19   Legal Proceedings; Orders.

            (a) Except as set forth in Part 2.19 of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, there is no pending Legal Proceeding, and (to the Knowledge of the
Company) no Person has threatened to commence any Legal Proceeding: (i) that
involves any of the Acquired Corporations or any of the assets owned or used by
any of the Acquired Corporations or any Person whose liability the Acquired
Corporations has or may have retained or assumed, either contractually or by
operation of law; or (ii) that challenges, or that may have the effect of
preventing, delaying, making illegal or otherwise interfering with, the Merger
or any of the other

                                      28.
<PAGE>

transactions contemplated by this Agreement. To the Knowledge of the Company,
except as set forth in Part 2.19 of the Company Disclosure Schedule, no event
has occurred, and no claim, dispute or other condition or circumstance exists,
that will, or that could reasonably be expected to, give rise to or serve as a
basis for the commencement of any such Legal Proceeding.

            (b) Except as set forth in Part 2.19 of the Company Disclosure
Schedule, no Legal Proceeding has ever been commenced by or has ever been
pending against any of the Acquired Corporations.

            (c) There is no order, writ, injunction, judgment or decree to which
any of the Acquired Corporations, or any of the assets owned or used by any of
the Acquired Corporations, are subject. To the Knowledge of the Company, no
officer or other employee of any of the Acquired Corporations is subject to any
order, writ, injunction, judgment or decree that prohibits such officer or other
employee from engaging in or continuing any conduct, activity or practice
relating to the business of any of the Acquired Corporations.

     2.20   Authority; Binding Nature of Agreement. The Company has the absolute
and unrestricted right, power and authority to enter into and to perform its
obligations under this Agreement; and the execution, delivery and performance by
the Company of this Agreement have been duly authorized by all necessary action
on the part of the Company and its board of directors. This Agreement
constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable
against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to (i) laws of general
application relating to bankruptcy, insolvency and the relief of debtors, and
(ii) rules of law governing specific performance, injunctive relief and other
equitable remedies.

     2.21   Non-Contravention; Consents. Except as set forth in Part 2.21 of the
Company Disclosure Schedule, neither (1) the execution, delivery or performance
of this Agreement or any of the other agreements referred to in this Agreement,
nor (2) the consummation of the Merger or any of the other transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, will directly or indirectly (with or without
notice or lapse of time):

            (a) contravene, conflict with or result in a violation of (i) any of
     the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, bylaws or other charter
     or similar organizational documents of any of the Acquired Corporations, or
     (ii) any resolution adopted by the stockholders, the board of directors or
     any committee of the board of directors of any of the Acquired
     Corporations;

            (b) contravene, conflict with or result in a violation of, or give
     any Governmental Body or other Person the right to challenge any of the
     transactions contemplated by this Agreement or to exercise any remedy or
     obtain any relief under, any Legal Requirement or any order, writ,
     injunction, judgment or decree to which any of the Acquired Corporations,
     or any of the assets owned or used by any of the Acquired Corporations, is
     subject;

            (c) contravene, conflict with or result in a violation of any of the
     terms or requirements of, or give any Governmental Body the right to
     revoke, withdraw, suspend, cancel, terminate or modify, any Governmental
     Authorization that is held by any of the

                                      29.
<PAGE>

     Acquired Corporations or that otherwise relates to the business or to any
     of the assets owned or used by any of the Acquired Corporations;

            (d) contravene, conflict with or result in a violation or breach of,
     or result in a default under, any provision of any Acquired Corporation
     Contract that is or would constitute a Material Contract, or give any
     Person the right to (i) declare a default or exercise any remedy under any
     such Material Contract, (ii) accelerate the maturity or performance of any
     such Material Contract, or (iii) cancel, terminate or modify any such
     Material Contract; or

            (e) result in the imposition or creation of any lien or other
     Encumbrance upon or with respect to any asset owned or used by any of the
     Acquired Corporations (except for Permitted Encumbrances).

Except as set forth in Part 2.21 of the Company Disclosure Schedule, none of the
Acquired Corporations was, is or will be required to make any filing with or
give any notice to, or to obtain any Consent from, any Person in connection with
(x) the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement or any of the other
agreements referred to in this Agreement, or (y) the consummation of the Merger
or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

     2.22   Inapplicability of Section 2115 of California Corporations Code. The
Company is not subject to Section 2115 of the California Corporations Code.

     2.23   Vote Required. The affirmative vote of holders of at least (i) a
majority of the outstanding shares of the Company Common Stock and the Company
Series A Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class, and (ii) a majority
of the outstanding shares of the Company Series A Preferred Stock, voting as a
separate class (the "Required Vote") is the vote necessary to adopt and approve
this Agreement, the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this
Agreement.

     2.24   Brokers or Finders. Except for the fees, costs and expenses payable
to the Company Financial Advisor and incurred in connection with the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the Acquired Corporations have not
incurred, and will not incur, directly or indirectly, any liability for
brokerage or finders' fees or agents' commissions or any similar charges in
connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

     2.25   Full Disclosure.

            (a) No representation or warranty made by the Company in this
Agreement (including the Company Disclosure Schedule) (i) contains any
information that is false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or
(ii) omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make such
representations and warranties (in the light of the circumstances under which
such representations, warranties were made) false or misleading.

            (b) The information supplied by the Company for inclusion in the
Information Statement (as defined in Section 5.2) will not, as of the date of
the Information Statement or as of the date of the Company Stockholders' Meeting
(as defined in Section 5.3), (i) contain any

                                      30.
<PAGE>

statement that is inaccurate or misleading with respect to any material fact, or
(ii) omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make such information
(in the light of the circumstances under which it is provided) not false or
misleading.

SECTION 3.  REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF PARENT AND MERGER SUB

            Except as otherwise set forth in the Parent Disclosure Schedule,
Parent and Merger Sub jointly and severally represent and warrant to the Company
as follows:

     3.1    Organization and Standing; Articles and Bylaws. Each of Parent and
Merger Sub is a corporation duly organized and validly existing under, and by
virtue of, the laws of the State of Delaware and is in good standing under such
laws. Each of Parent and Merger Sub has all requisite corporate power to own and
operate its respective properties and assets, and to carry on its respective
business as presently conducted and as proposed to be conducted. Each of Parent
and Merger Sub is qualified to do business as a foreign corporation in any
jurisdiction in which failure to qualify would have a material adverse effect on
Parent's business. Parent has furnished the Company true and complete copies of
its restated certificate of incorporation (the "Restated Certificate") and
bylaws in effect as of the date hereof. Other than Merger Sub, Parent has no
Subsidiaries and does not otherwise own or control any other Entity. Parent has
no equity interest in any Entity other than Merger Sub.

     3.2    Capitalization. As of the date of this Agreement, the authorized
capital stock of Parent consists of 40,000,000 shares of Parent Common Stock,
4,721,364 shares of which are issued and outstanding, and 22,000,000 shares of
Preferred Stock, 8,283,000 shares of which are designated as Series A Preferred
Stock, all of which are issued and outstanding, 7,099,006 shares of which are
designated Series B Preferred Stock, all of which are issued and outstanding,
5,500,000 of which are designated as Series C Preferred Stock, 1,644,076 of
which are issued and outstanding. All such issued and outstanding shares have
been duly authorized and validly issued, and are fully paid and non-assessable
and have been issued in compliance with all federal and applicable state
securities laws. Parent has reserved 8,283,000 shares of Parent Common Stock for
issuance upon conversion of its Series A Preferred, 7,099,006 shares of Parent
Common Stock for issuance upon conversion of its Series B Preferred, 5,500,000
shares of Parent Common Stock for issuance upon conversion of its Series C
Preferred, 5,000,000 shares of Parent Common Stock for issuance upon conversion
of the Parent Series D Preferred Stock, 650,000 shares of Parent Common Stock
for issuance upon conversion of outstanding options granted outside Parent's
2000 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Parent Stock Plan"), and 5,257,136 shares of
Parent Common Stock for issuance to officers, directors, employees, sales
representatives and consultants of Parent pursuant to the Parent Stock Plan, of
which 3,687,395 shares are currently subject to outstanding options and
1,569,741 shares are available for future issuance. The Parent Common Stock and
the Parent Series D Preferred Stock, when the Amended and Restated Certificate
of Parent attached hereto as Exhibit D (the "Parent Amended and Restated
Certificate") is filed, shall have the rights, preferences, privileges and
restrictions set forth in the Parent Amended and Restated Certificate. There are
no options, warrants (other than warrants to purchase 10,000 shares of Parent
Common Stock and warrants to purchase 254,000 shares of Parent Series B
Preferred Stock), conversion privileges or other rights presently outstanding to
purchase or otherwise acquire any authorized but unissued shares of the capital
stock or other securities of Parent, nor any agreements or understandings with
respect

                                      31.
<PAGE>

thereto. Parent is not a party or subject to any agreement or understanding,
and, to Parent's Knowledge, there is no agreement or understanding between any
Persons, which affects or relates to the voting or giving of consents with
respect to any security or by a director of Parent. Parent is not under any
obligation to register any of its presently outstanding securities or any of its
securities that may hereafter be issued. To Parent's Knowledge, no stockholders
of Parent have entered into any agreements with respect to the voting of capital
stock of Parent.

     3.3    Financial Statements.

            (a) Parent has delivered to the Company the following financial
statements and notes (collectively, the "Parent Financial Statements"):

                (i)  The audited balance sheets of Parent as of December 31,
         1999, and the related audited income statements, statements of
         stockholders' equity and statements of cash flows of Parent for the
         years then ended, together with the notes thereto and the unqualified
         report and opinion of Ernst & Young LLP relating thereto; and

                (ii) the unaudited balance sheet of Parent as of September 30,
         2000 (the "Unaudited Interim Balance Sheet"), and the related unaudited
         income statement of Parent for the nine months then ended.

            (b) The Parent Financial Statements are accurate and complete in all
material respects and present fairly the financial position of Parent as of the
respective dates thereof and the results of operations and (in the case of the
financial statements referred to in Section 3.5(a)(i)) cash flows of Parent for
the periods covered thereby. The Parent Financial Statements have been prepared
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a
consistent basis throughout the periods covered (except that the financial
statements referred to in Section 3.5(a)(ii) do not contain footnotes and are
subject to normal and recurring year-end audit adjustments, which will not,
individually or in the aggregate, be material in magnitude).

            (c) Except as set forth in the Parent Financial Statements, Parent
has no material liabilities, contingent or otherwise, other than (i) liabilities
incurred in the ordinary course of business subsequent to September 30, 2000 and
(ii) obligations under contracts and commitments incurred in the ordinary course
of business and not required under generally accepted accounting principles to
be reflected in the Parent Financial Statements, which, in both cases,
individually or in the aggregate are not material to the financial condition or
operating results of Parent.

     3.4    Actions. Parent has not (i) declared or paid any dividends, or
authorized or made any distribution upon or with respect to any class or series
of its capital stock, (ii) except as may be contemplated by this Agreement,
incurred any indebtedness for money borrowed or incurred any other liabilities
individually in excess of $25,000 or in excess of $50,000 in the aggregate,
(iii) made any loans or advances to any person, other than ordinary advances for
travel expenses, or (iv) sold, exchanged or otherwise disposed of any of its
assets or rights, other than the sale of its inventory in the ordinary course of
business.

     3.5    Title to Properties and Assets; Liens, etc. Parent has good and
marketable title to all its properties and assets, and is in compliance with the
lease of all material properties

                                      32.
<PAGE>

leased by it, in each case subject to no Encumbrances, other than liens for
current taxes not yet due and payable. Parent is not in default under or in
breach of any provision of its leases, and Parent holds valid lease-hold
interests in the properties which it leases. Parent's material properties and
assets are in good condition and repair, ordinary wear and tear excepted, in all
material respects.

     3.6    Patents, Trademarks, etc. To the Knowledge of Parent, Parent has
sufficient title and ownership of all patents, trademarks, service marks, trade
names, copyrights, trade secrets, information, proprietary rights and processes
necessary for its business as now conducted, and as proposed to be conducted,
and, to the Knowledge of Parent, without conflict with or infringement of the
rights of others. Parent has not received any communications alleging that
Parent has violated or, by conducting its business as proposed, would violate,
the patents, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets,
information or proprietary or intellectual property rights of any other person
or entity. Parent has no Knowledge of any violation or infringement by a third
party of any of Parent's patents, licenses, trademarks, service marks, trade
names, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights. Parent has
disclosed trade secrets to other persons solely as required for the conduct of
its business and solely under nondisclosure agreements that are enforceable by
Parent. Parent has at all times maintained reasonable procedures to protect and
have enforced all of its trade secrets.

     3.7    Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreements. Each employee,
consultant and officer of Parent has executed an agreement with Parent regarding
confidentiality and proprietary information substantially in the form or forms
delivered to the counsel for the Company. Parent, after reasonable
investigation, is not aware that any of its employees or consultants is in
violation thereof. All consultants to or vendors of Parent with access to
confidential information of Parent are parties to a written agreement
substantially in the form or forms provided to counsel for the Company under
which, among other things, each such consultant or vendor is obligated to
maintain the confidentiality of confidential information of Parent. Parent,
after reasonable investigation, has no Knowledge that any of its consultants or
vendors are in violation thereof.

     3.8    Material Contracts and Commitments. Part 3.8 of the Parent
Disclosure Schedule sets forth a list of all Contracts to which Parent is a
party or by which it or its assets are bound that (a) involve in excess of
$50,000 aggregating similar agreements or obligations to the same party; (b)
involve to Parent's Knowledge any of the officers, consultants, directors,
employees, or shareholders of Parent or any members of the immediate family of
the foregoing; or (c) obligate Parent to share, license, or develop any product.
True and complete copies of all items set forth on Part 3.8 of the Parent
Disclosure Schedule have been made available to the Major Stockholders.

     3.9   Compliance with Other Instruments. Neither Parent nor Merger Sub is
in violation of any term of its respective certificate of incorporation (as
amended) or its respective bylaws (as amended), or in any material respect of
any term or provision of any mortgage, indenture, Contract, judgment or decree,
and to the Parent's Knowledge, neither Parent nor Merger Sub is in violation of
any order, statute, rule or regulation applicable to Parent. The execution,
delivery and performance of and compliance with this Agreement and each of the
other Transaction Agreements, have not resulted and will not result in any
violation of, or

                                      33.
<PAGE>

conflict with, or constitute a default under any of the foregoing, or result in
the creation of any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or charge upon any of
the properties or assets of Parent; and there is no such violation or default
which materially and adversely affects the business, financial condition or
results of operations of Parent or any of its properties or assets. All of the
Contracts set forth on Part 3.8 of the Parent Disclosure Schedule are in full
force and effect and constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of Parent.
Parent and, to the Knowledge of Parent, each other party thereto, has performed
in all material respects all obligations required to be performed by it under
the Contracts set forth on Part 3.8 of the Parent Disclosure Schedule, and no
material violation or default exists in respect thereof, nor any event that with
notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default thereof; on the
part of Parent or, to the Knowledge of Parent, any other party thereto; none of
the Contracts set forth on Part 3.8 of the Parent Disclosure Schedule is
currently being renegotiated; and the validity, effectiveness and continuation
of all Contracts set forth on Part 3.8 of the Parent Disclosure Schedule will
not be materially adversely affected by the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement or any of the other Transaction Agreements.

     3.10   Validity of Parent Capital Stock. The Parent Capital Stock, when
issued in compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, will be duly and
validly issued and will be fully paid and nonassessable and free and clear of
all Encumbrances, and the Parent Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the
Parent Series D Preferred Stock will, prior to the Closing, be duly and validly
reserved and, when issued and delivered in compliance with the provisions of the
Amended and Restated Certificate will be duly and validly issued and will be
fully paid and nonassessable and free and clear of all Encumbrances on transfer
other than as set forth in this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements,
provided, however, that the Parent Capital Stock (and the Parent Common Stock
issuable upon conversion of the Parent Series D Preferred Stock) may be subject
to restrictions on transfer under state and/or federal securities laws. There
are no outstanding rights of first refusal or preemptive rights applicable to
the Parent Capital Stock.

     3.11   Governmental Authorizations. Parent has all Governmental
Authorizations necessary to enable Parent to conduct its business in the manner
in which its business is currently being conducted. Parent is, and at all times
since December 31, 1999 has been, in substantial compliance with the terms and
requirements of all material Governmental Authorizations held by Parent. Since
December 31, 1999, Parent has not received any notice or other communication
from any Governmental Body regarding (a) any actual or possible violation of or
failure to comply with any term or requirement of any Governmental
Authorization, or (b) any actual or possible revocation, withdrawal, suspension,
cancellation, termination or modification of any Governmental Authorization.

     3.12   Tax Returns and Payments. Parent has filed all tax returns and
reports as required by law. These returns and reports are true and correct in
all material respects. Parent has paid all taxes and other assessments due.

     3.13   Tax Elections. Parent has not elected pursuant to the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), to be treated as an "S"
corporation or a collapsible corporation pursuant to Section 341(f) or Section
1362(a) of the Code, nor has it made any other elections pursuant to the Code
(other than elections which relate solely to matters of accounting,

                                      34.
<PAGE>

depreciation or amortization) which would have a material affect on Parent, its
financial condition, its business as presently conducted or as presently
proposed to be conducted or any of its properties or material assets.

     3.14   Employees. To Parent's Knowledge, no employee of Parent is or will
be in violation of any judgment, decree or order of any court or administrative
agency, or any term of any employment contract or any other contract (including
without limitation any covenant not to compete) or agreement relating to the
relationship of any such employee with Parent or any other party because of the
nature of the business conducted or to be conducted by Parent or to the
utilization by the employee of such employee's reasonable efforts with respect
to such business. Parent does not have any collective bargaining agreements
covering any of its employees. To Parent's Knowledge, Parent is not using any
inventions of any of its employees, consultants or officers made before their
employment by Parent. To Parent's Knowledge, no employee, consultant or officer
has taken, removed, or made use of any proprietary documentation, manuals,
products, materials, or any other tangible items from the employee's previous
employers relating to Parent's business. To Parent's Knowledge, no labor union
has sought to represent any of the employees of Parent. There is no strike or
other labor dispute involving Parent pending, or to the Knowledge of Parent,
threatened. To Parent's Knowledge, no officer or key employee intends to
terminate his or her employment with Parent.

     3.15   Employee Benefit Plans. Neither Parent nor Merger Sub has any
Employee Benefit Plan as defined in ERISA.

     3.16   Environmental Matters. The business, assets and properties of Parent
are and have been operated and maintained in material compliance with all
applicable Environmental Laws. To Parent's Knowledge, no event has occurred
which, with or without the passage of time or the giving of notice, or both,
would constitute noncompliance by Parent with, or a violation by Parent of, the
Environmental Laws. To Parent's Knowledge, Parent has not caused or permitted to
exist, as a result of an intentional or unintentional act or omission, a
disposal, discharge or release of solid wastes, pollutants or hazardous
substances, on or from any site which currently is or formerly was owned,
leased, occupied or used by it, except where such disposal, discharge or release
was in material compliance with the Environmental Laws.

     3.17   Insurance. Parent has in full force and effect fire, casualty and
liability insurance policies with recognized insurers with such coverages as are
sufficient in amount to allow replacement of the tangible properties of Parent
that might be damaged or destroyed.

     3.18   No Conflict of Interest. Parent is not indebted, directly or
indirectly, to any of its officers or directors or to their respective spouses
or children, in any amount whatsoever other than in connection with expenses or
advances of expenses incurred in the ordinary course of business or relocation
expenses of employees. To Parent's Knowledge, none of Parent's officers or
directors, or any members of their immediate families, are, directly or
indirectly, indebted to Parent (other than in connection with purchases of
Parent's stock) or have any direct or indirect ownership interest in any firm or
corporation with which Parent is affiliated or with which Parent has a business
relationship, or any firm or corporation which competes with Parent, except that
officers, directors and/or shareholders of Parent may own stock in (but not
exceeding two percent of the outstanding capital stock of) any publicly traded
company that may compete with

                                      35.
<PAGE>

Parent. To Parent's Knowledge, none of Parent's officers or directors or any
members of the immediate families are, directly or indirectly, interested in any
material contract with Parent. Parent is not a guarantor or indemnitor of any
indebtedness of any other Person.

     3.19   Litigation, etc. There are no actions, suits, proceedings or
investigations pending or, to Parent's Knowledge, threatened against Parent or
its properties before any Governmental Body, which, either in any case or in the
aggregate, might result in any material adverse effect on the business,
financial condition, affairs, operations or equity ownership of Parent or any of
its properties or assets, or in any material impairment of the right or ability
of Parent to carry on its business as now conducted or as presently proposed to
be conducted, or in any material liability on the part of Parent, and none which
questions the validity of this Agreement or any of the other Transaction
Agreements or any action taken or to be taken in connection herewith or
therewith. Parent is not a party or subject to the order, writ, judgement,
injunction, decree or other provisions of any Governmental Body. There is no
action, suit, proceeding, or investigation by Parent currently pending or that
Parent intends to initiate.

     3.20   Authority; Binding Nature of Agreement. Parent and Merger Sub each
has the absolute and unrestricted right, power and authority to enter into and
to perform its respective obligations under this Agreement, the Escrow
Agreements, the Voting Agreements, and the Noncompetition Agreements
(collectively, the "Transaction Agreements"); and the execution, delivery and
performance by Parent and Merger Sub of the Transaction Agreements have been
duly authorized by all necessary action on the part of the Parent and Merger
Sub. This Agreement and each of the other Transaction Agreements to which either
Parent or Merger Sub is a party constitutes the legal, valid and binding
obligation of Parent and/or Merger Sub, as the case may be, enforceable against
Parent and/or Merger Sub, as the case may be, in accordance with their
respective terms, subject to (i) laws of general application relating to
bankruptcy, insolvency and the relief of debtors, and (ii) rules of law
governing specific performance, injunctive relief and other equitable remedies.

     3.21   Non-Contravention; Consents. Neither the execution and delivery of
this Agreement by Parent and Merger Sub nor the consummation by Parent and
Merger Sub of the Merger will (a) conflict with or result in any breach of any
provision of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws of Parent or Merger Sub,
(b) result in a default by Parent or Merger Sub under any Contract to which
Parent or Merger Sub is a party, except for any default that has not had and
will not have a Material Adverse Effect on Parent, or (c) result in a violation
by Parent or Merger Sub of any order, writ, injunction, judgment or decree to
which Parent or Merger Sub is subject, except for any violation that has not had
and will not have a Material Adverse Effect on Parent. Except as may be required
by the Securities Act, state securities or "blue sky" laws, the DGCL, the HSR
Act, any foreign antitrust law or regulation, Parent is not and will not be
required to make any filing with or give any notice to, or to obtain any Consent
from, any Person in connection with the execution, delivery or performance of
this Agreement or the consummation of the Merger.

     3.22   Financial Condition. Parent was incorporated on May 11, 1998. Since
that time, Parent has only engaged in startup and development activities and has
generated no revenue. Since inception, Parent has been operated only in the
ordinary course of business, and there has not been a Material Adverse Effect on
Parent.

                                      36.
<PAGE>

     3.23

     3.24   U.S. Real Property Holding Corporation. Parent is not now, nor will
it be immediately after the Closing, a "United States Real Property Holding
Corporation" as defined in Section 897(c)(2) of the Code and Section 1.897-2(b)
of the regulations promulgated under the Code.

     3.25   Investment Company Act. Parent is not an "investment company" nor is
Parent directly or indirectly controlled by or acting on behalf of any person
which is an "Investment Company" within the meaning of the Investment Company
Act of 1940, as amended.

     3.26   No Brokers or Finders. Parent has not incurred, and will not incur,
directly or indirectly, any liability for brokerage or finders' fees or agents'
commissions or any similar charges in connection with the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement.

     3.27   Full Disclosure.

            (a)  No representation or warranty made by Parent or Merger Sub in
this Agreement (including the Parent Disclosure Schedule) (i) contains any
information that is false or misleading with respect to any material fact, or
(ii) omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make such
representations and warranties (in the light of the circumstances under which
such representations, warranties were made) false or misleading.

            (b)  The information supplied by Parent or Merger Sub for inclusion
in the Information Statement (as defined in Section 5.2) will not, as of the
date of the Information Statement or as of the date of the Company Stockholders'
Meeting (as defined in Section 5.3), (i) contain any statement that is
inaccurate or misleading with respect to any material fact, or (ii) omit to
state any material fact necessary in order to make such information (in the
light of the circumstances under which it is provided) not false or misleading.

SECTION 4.  CERTAIN COVENANTS OF THE PARTIES

     4.1    Access and Investigation. During the period from the date of this
Agreement through the Effective Time (the "Pre-Closing Period"), the Company
shall, and shall cause its Representatives to: (a) provide Parent and Parent's
Representatives with reasonable access to the Acquired Corporations'
Representatives, personnel and assets and to all existing books, records, Tax
Returns, work papers and other documents and information relating to the
Company; and (b) provide Parent and Parent's Representatives with copies of such
existing books, records, Tax Returns, work papers and other documents and
information relating to the Acquired Corporations, and with such additional
financial, operating and other data and information regarding the Acquired
Corporations, as Parent may reasonably request.

     4.2    Operation of the Company's Business. During the Pre-Closing Period:

            (a)  the Company shall (and shall cause each of the other Acquired
     Corporations to) conduct their respective businesses and operations in the
     ordinary course and in substantially the same manner as such businesses and
     operations have been conducted prior to the date of this Agreement;

                                      37.
<PAGE>

            (b)  the Company shall (and shall cause each of the other Acquired
     Corporations to) use reasonable efforts to preserve intact their respective
     current business organizations, keep available the services of their
     respective current officers and employees and maintain their respective
     relations and good will with all suppliers, customers, landlords,
     creditors, employees and other Persons having business relationships with
     any of the Acquired Corporations;

            (c)  the Company shall (and shall cause each of the other Acquired
     Corporations to) keep in full force all insurance policies identified in
     Part 2.17 of the Company Disclosure Schedule;

            (d)  the Company shall (and shall cause each of the other Acquired
     Corporations to) cause their respective officers to report regularly (but
     in no event less frequently than bi-monthly) to Parent concerning the
     status of the business of each Acquired Corporation;

            (e)  the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to file
     an amended and restated certificate of incorporation with the Secretary of
     State for the State of Delaware that provides for a liquidation preference
     in favor of the Company Series A Preferred Stock equal in value, in the
     aggregate, to the Liquidation Consideration (the "Company Amended and
     Restated Certificate");

            (f)  the Company shall not (and shall cause each of the other
     Acquired Corporations not to) declare, accrue, set aside or pay any
     dividend or make any other distribution in respect of any shares of capital
     stock, and shall not repurchase, redeem or otherwise reacquire any shares
     of capital stock or other securities (except that the Company may
     repurchase Company Common Stock from former employees pursuant to the terms
     of existing restricted stock purchase agreements);

            (g)  the Company shall not (and shall cause each of the other
     Acquired Corporations not to) sell, issue or authorize the issuance of (i)
     any capital stock or other security, (ii) any option or right to acquire
     any capital stock or other security, or (iii) any instrument convertible
     into or exchangeable for any capital stock or other security (except that
     the Company shall be permitted (y) to issue Company Common Stock to
     employees upon the exercise of outstanding Company Options, and (z) to
     issue shares of Company Common Stock upon the conversion of shares of
     Company Preferred Stock);

            (h)  the Company shall not (and shall cause each of the other
     Acquired Corporations not to) amend or waive any of its rights under, or
     permit the acceleration of vesting under, (i) any provision of the Stock
     Plan, (ii) any provision of any agreement evidencing any outstanding
     Company Option, or (iii) any provision of any restricted stock purchase
     agreement;

            (i)  the Company shall not (and shall cause each of the other
     Acquired Corporations not to) amend or permit the adoption of any amendment
     to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or similar
     organizational documents of any Acquired Corporation, or effect or permit
     any Acquired Corporation to become a party to

                                      38.
<PAGE>

     any Acquisition Transaction, recapitalization, reclassification of shares,
     stock split, reverse stock split or similar transaction (except that the
     Company may issue shares of Company Common Stock upon the conversion of
     shares of Company Series A Preferred Stock);

            (j)  the Company shall not (and shall cause each of the other
     Acquired Corporations not to) form any subsidiary or acquire any equity
     interest or other interest in any other Entity;

            (k)  the Company shall not (and shall cause each of the other
     Acquired Corporations not to) make any capital expenditure, except for
     capital expenditures that, when added to all other capital expenditures
     made on behalf of the Acquired Corporations during the Pre-Closing Period,
     do not exceed $15,000 per month;

            (l)  the Company shall not (and shall cause each of the other
     Acquired Corporations not to) (i) enter into, or permit any of the assets
     owned or used by any Acquired Corporation to become bound by, any Contract
     that is or would constitute a Material Contract, or (ii) amend or
     prematurely terminate, or waive any material right or remedy under, any
     such Contract (except amendment or termination of the Company's existing
     line of credit with that certain Loan Agreement dated February 1, 1999
     among First Union National Bank (the "Bank"), the Company and PPD (the
     "Company Line of Credit");

            (m)  the Company shall not (and shall cause each of the other
     Acquired Corporations not to) (i) acquire, lease or license any right or
     other asset from any other Person, (ii) sell or otherwise dispose of, or
     lease or license, any right or other asset to any other Person, or (iii)
     waive or relinquish any right, except for assets acquired, leased, licensed
     or disposed of by the Company pursuant to Contracts that are not Material
     Contracts;

            (n)  the Company shall not (and shall cause each of the other
     Acquired Corporations not to) (i) lend money to any Person (except that the
     Company may make routine travel advances to employees in the ordinary
     course of business and may, consistent with its past practices, allow
     employees to acquire Company Common Stock in exchange for promissory notes
     upon exercise of Company Options), or (ii) incur or guarantee any
     indebtedness for borrowed money (except that the Company may make routine
     borrowings in the ordinary course of business under the Company Line of
     Credit or that certain Loan Agreement dated September 22, 2000 among the
     Company and the Major Stockholders (the "Loan Agreement"));

            (o)  the Company shall not (and shall cause each of the other
     Acquired Corporations not to) (i) establish, adopt or amend any Employee
     Benefit Plan, (ii) pay any bonus or make any profit-sharing payment, cash
     incentive payment or similar payment to, or increase the amount of the
     wages, salary, commissions, fringe benefits or other compensation or
     remuneration payable to, any of its directors, officers or employees, or
     (iii) hire any new employee whose aggregate annual compensation is expected
     to exceed $50,000;

                                      39.
<PAGE>

            (p)  the Company shall not (and shall cause each of the other
     Acquired Corporations not to) change any methods of accounting or
     accounting practices of any Acquired Corporation in any material respect;

            (q)  the Company shall not (and shall cause each of the other
     Acquired Corporations not to) make any Tax election;

            (r)  the Company shall not (and shall cause each of the other
     Acquired Corporations not to) commence or settle any material Legal
     Proceeding;

            (s)  the Company shall not (and shall cause each of the other
     Acquired Corporations not to) agree or commit to take any of the actions
     described in clauses "(f)" through "(f)" above.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may take any action described in
clauses "(f)" through "(s)" above if Parent gives its prior written consent to
the taking of such action by the Company, which consent will not be unreasonably
withheld (it being understood that Parent's withholding of consent to any action
will not be deemed unreasonable if Parent determines in good faith that the
taking of such action would not be in the best interests of Parent or would not
be in the best interests of the Company); provided, however, that Parent's
consent shall be deemed to have been granted if Parent fails to reply to a
written request from the Company to take any action described in clauses "(e)"
through "(r)" above within five days after receipt of such written request.

     4.3    Notification; Updates to Company Disclosure Schedule.

            (a)  During the Pre-Closing Period, the Company shall promptly
     notify Parent in writing of:

                 (i)    the discovery by any Acquired Corporation of any event,
     condition, fact or circumstance that occurred or existed on or prior to the
     date of this Agreement and that caused or constitutes an inaccuracy in or
     breach of any representation or warranty made by the Company in this
     Agreement;

                 (ii)   any event, condition, fact or circumstance that occurs,
     arises or exists after the date of this Agreement and that would cause or
     constitute an inaccuracy in or breach of any representation or warranty
     made by the Company in this Agreement if (A) such representation or
     warranty had been made as of the time of the occurrence, existence or
     discovery of such event, condition, fact or circumstance, or (B) such
     event, condition, fact or circumstance had occurred, arisen or existed on
     or prior to the date of this Agreement;

                 (iii)  any breach of any covenant or obligation of the Company;
     and

                 (iv)   any event, condition, fact or circumstance that would
     make the timely satisfaction of any of the conditions set forth in Section
     6 or Section 7 impossible or unlikely.

                                      40.
<PAGE>

          (b)  If any event, condition, fact or circumstance that is required to
be disclosed pursuant to Section 4.3(a) requires any change in the Company
Disclosure Schedule, or if any such event, condition, fact or circumstance would
require such a change assuming the Company Disclosure Schedule were dated as of
the date of the occurrence, existence or discovery of such event, condition,
fact or circumstance, then the Company shall promptly deliver to Parent an
update to the Company Disclosure Schedule specifying such change. No such update
shall be deemed to supplement or amend the Company Disclosure Schedule for the
purpose of (i) except as set forth in Section 9.2(a), determining the accuracy
of any of the representations and warranties made by the Company in this
Agreement, or (ii) determining whether any of the conditions set forth in
Section 6 has been satisfied.

     4.4  Notification; Updates to Parent Disclosure Schedule.

          (a)   During the Pre-Closing Period, Parent shall promptly notify the
Company in writing of:

                (i)    the discovery by Parent of any event, condition, fact or
     circumstance that occurred or existed on or prior to the date of this
     Agreement and that caused or constitutes an inaccuracy in or breach of any
     representation or warranty made by Parent and Merger Sub in this Agreement;

                (ii)   any event, condition, fact or circumstance that occurs,
     arises or exists after the date of this Agreement and that would cause or
     constitute an inaccuracy in or breach of any representation or warranty
     made by Parent and Merger Sub in this Agreement if (A) such representation
     or warranty had been made as of the time of the occurrence, existence or
     discovery of such event, condition, fact or circumstance, or (B) such
     event, condition, fact or circumstance had occurred, arisen or existed on
     or prior to the date of this Agreement;

                (iii)  any breach of any covenant or obligation of Parent or
     Merger Sub; and

                (iv)   event, condition, fact or circumstance that would make
     the timely satisfaction of any of the conditions set forth in Section 6 or
     Section 7 impossible or unlikely.

     If any event, condition, fact or circumstance that is required to be
disclosed pursuant to Section 4.4(a) requires any change in the Parent
Disclosure Schedule, or if any such event, condition, fact or circumstance would
require such a change assuming the Parent Disclosure Schedule were dated as of
the date of the occurrence, existence or discovery of such event, condition,
fact or circumstance, then Parent shall promptly deliver to the Company an
update to the Parent Disclosure Schedule specifying such change. No such update
shall be deemed to supplement or amend the Parent Disclosure Schedule for the
purpose of (i) except as set forth in Section 9.2(b), determining the accuracy
of any of the representations and warranties made by Parent and Merger Sub in
this Agreement, or (ii) determining whether any of the conditions set forth in
Section 7 has been satisfied.

     4.5  Operation of Parent's Business.  During the Pre-Closing Period:

                                      41.
<PAGE>

          (a)  Parent shall (and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to)
     conduct their respective businesses and operations in the ordinary course
     and in substantially the same manner as such businesses and operations have
     been conducted prior to the date of this Agreement (it being understood,
     however, that Parent may continue preparations for the initial public
     offering of Parent Common Stock);

          (b)  Parent shall (and shall cause each of its respective Subsidiaries
     to) use reasonable efforts to preserve intact their respective current
     business organizations, keep available the services of their respective
     current officers and employees and maintain their respective relations and
     good will with all suppliers, customers, landlords, creditors, employees
     and other Persons having business relationships with any of Parent and/or
     any of its Subsidiaries;

          (c)  Parent shall use commercially reasonable efforts to file the
     Amended and Restated Certificate as soon as possible;

          (d)  Parent shall use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure that,
     as of immediately after the Closing, PPD will be permitted to appoint one
     member of the board of directors of Parent.

          (e)  Parent shall not declare, accrue, set aside or pay any dividend
     or make any other distribution in respect of any shares of Parent's capital
     stock, and shall not repurchase, redeem or otherwise reacquire any shares
     of Parent's capital stock or other securities (except that Parent may
     repurchase Parent Common Stock from former employees pursuant to the terms
     of existing restricted stock purchase agreements);

          (f)  Parent shall not amend or permit the adoption of any amendment to
     the Restated Certificate or Parent's Bylaws that would have the effect of
     diminishing the rights, preferences or privileges of the Parent Series D
     Preferred Stock as set forth in the Restated Certificate.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, Parent may take any action described in clauses
"(e)" or "(f)" if the Company gives its prior written consent to the taking of
such action by Parent, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld (it being
understood that the Company's withholding of consent to any action will not be
deemed unreasonable if the Company determines in good faith that the taking of
such action would not be in the best interests of the Company); provided,
however, that the Company's consent shall be deemed to have been granted if the
Company fails to reply to a written request from Parent to take any action
described in clauses "(e)" or "(f)" above within five days after receipt of such
written request

     4.6  No Negotiation. During the Pre-Closing Period, the Company shall not
(and shall cause each of the other Acquired Corporations not to), directly or
indirectly:

          (a)  solicit or encourage the initiation of any inquiry, proposal or
     offer from any Person (other than Parent) relating to a possible
     Acquisition Transaction;

                                      42.
<PAGE>

          (b)  participate in any discussions or negotiations or enter into any
     agreement with, or provide any non-public information to, any Person (other
     than Parent) relating to or in connection with a possible Acquisition
     Transaction; or

          (c)  consider, entertain or accept any proposal or offer from any
     Person (other than Parent) relating to a possible Acquisition Transaction.

The Company shall promptly notify Parent in writing of any material inquiry,
proposal or offer relating to a possible Acquisition Transaction that is
received by the Company during the Pre-Closing Period.

SECTION 5.  ADDITIONAL COVENANTS OF THE PARTIES

     5.1  Filings and Consents. As promptly as practicable after the execution
of this Agreement, each party to this Agreement (a) shall make all filings (if
any) and give all notices (if any) required to be made and given by such party
in connection with the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, and (b) shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain all
Consents (if any) required to be obtained (pursuant to any applicable Legal
Requirement or Contract, or otherwise) by such party in connection with the
Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement. The Company
shall (upon request) promptly deliver to Parent a copy of each such filing made,
each such notice given and each such Consent obtained by the Company during the
Pre-Closing Period.

     5.2  Company Stockholders' Meeting. As promptly as practicable after the
execution of this Agreement, the Company and Parent shall jointly prepare an
Information Statement relating to the adoption of this Agreement and the
approval of the transactions contemplated hereby by the Company's stockholders
and the exercise of appraisal rights in connection therewith (the "Information
Statement"). The Company shall provide and include in the Information Statement
such information relating to the Company and its stockholders as may be required
pursuant to the provisions of applicable securities and corporate laws
(including, without limitation, Rule 502 under the Securities Act). The Company
shall, in accordance with its Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and the
applicable requirements of the Delaware General Corporation Law, call and hold a
special meeting of its stockholders as promptly as practicable, and in any event
no later than December 20, 2000, for the purpose of permitting them to consider
and to vote upon and adopt this Agreement and approve the transactions
contemplated hereby (the "Company Stockholders' Meeting"). The Company shall
cause a copy of the Information Statement to be delivered to each stockholder of
the Company who is entitled to vote on the adoption of this Agreement and
approval of the transactions contemplated hereby. As promptly as practicable
after the delivery of copies of the Information Statement to all stockholders
entitled to vote at the Company Stockholders' Meeting, the Company shall take
all actions necessary (i) to solicit from each of such stockholders a proxy in
favor of the adoption of this Agreement and the approval of the transactions
contemplated hereby and (ii) to cause each of such stockholders to execute and
deliver to Parent a Stockholder Representation Letter in a form to be mutually
agreed upon by the parties hereto. In lieu of calling and holding the Company
Stockholders' Meeting, the Company may solicit written consents (to be effective
on or prior to December 20, 2000) in accordance with its certificate of
incorporation and bylaws and the applicable requirements of the Delaware General
Corporation Law. Parent will reasonably

                                      43.
<PAGE>

cooperate with the Company with respect to the matters set forth in this Section
5.2. Parent will promptly provide all information relating to its business or
operations necessary for inclusion in the Information Statement to satisfy all
requirements of applicable state and federal securities and corporate laws.

     5.3  Public Announcements. During the Pre-Closing Period, (a) Neither
Parent nor the Company shall (and Parent and the Company shall not permit any of
their respective Representatives to, and the Company shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to cause the Major Stockholders to) issue any press release
or make any public statement regarding this Agreement or the Merger, or
regarding any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, without
the prior written consent of the Company or Parent, as the case may be, and (b)
Parent and the Company will use reasonable efforts to consult with one another
(and the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Major
Stockholders to consult with Parent) prior to issuing any press release or
making any public statement regarding the Merger.

     5.4  Reasonable Efforts. During the Pre-Closing Period, (a) the Company
shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the conditions set forth in
Section 6 to be satisfied on a timely basis, and (b) Parent and Merger Sub shall
use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the conditions set forth in Section
7 to be satisfied on a timely basis.

     5.5  Tax Matters. Prior to the Closing, Parent, Merger Sub and the Company
shall execute and deliver, to Cooley Godward LLP and to Heller Ehrman White &
McAuliffe LLP, tax representation letters in substantially the form of Exhibit
E. Parent, Merger Sub and the Company shall each confirm to Cooley Godward LLP
and to Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe LLP the accuracy and completeness as of
the Effective Time and thereafter, where relevant, of the tax representation
letters delivered pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence. Parent and the
Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts prior to the Effective Time to
cause the Merger to qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a)(1)
of the Code. Following delivery of the tax representation letters pursuant to
the first sentence of this Section 5.6, each of Parent and the Company shall use
its commercially reasonable efforts to cause Cooley Godward LLP and Heller
Ehrman White & McAuliffe LLP, respectively, to deliver to it a tax opinion
satisfying the requirements of Section 6.5(h) hereof and Section 7.3(b) hereof.
In rendering such opinions, each of such counsel shall be entitled to rely on
the tax representation letters referred to in this Section 5.6. The parties
hereto shall report the Merger as a reorganization within the meaning of Section
368(a) of the Code, and neither Parent, Merger Sub nor the Company shall take
any action prior to or following the Closing that would reasonably be expected
to cause the Merger to fail to qualify as a reorganization.

     5.6  Noncompetition Agreements. The Company shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to cause each of the Major Stockholders to execute and
deliver to Parent prior to the Closing a Noncompetition Agreement in the form of
Exhibit F.

     5.7  Employment Agreements. The Company shall use commercially reasonable
efforts to cause each of the individuals identified on Exhibit G to execute and
deliver to Parent prior to the Closing an Employment Agreement in the form of
Exhibit H.

                                      44.
<PAGE>

     5.8  Releases. The Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to
cause each of the Company stockholders to execute and deliver to Parent at the
Closing a Release in the form of Exhibit I.

     5.9  Underwriter Lockup Agreements. The Company shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to cause each of the Company stockholders to execute and
deliver to Parent prior to the Closing an Underwriter Lockup Agreement in the
form of Exhibit J.

     5.10 Amendment/Clarification of Existing Agreements; Payoff of Company Line
of Credit.

          (a)  The Company shall execute and deliver, and shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to cause the other parties to such agreements to execute and
deliver: (1) the Amended and Restated Distributor Agreement between the Company
and PPD dated February 1, 1999, as amended attached hereto as Exhibit K; and (2)
the Amended and Restated Technology Transfer and License Agreement between the
Company and Axys dated February 1, 1999, as amended attached hereto as Exhibit
L. The Company shall execute and deliver, and shall use commercially reasonable
efforts to cause PPD to execute and deliver, (1) the clarification letter to the
PPD/PPGx Joint Development Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit M and (2) the
real property indemnity letter attached hereto as Exhibit N. The Company shall
execute and deliver, and shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause Axys
to execute and deliver, (1) the covenant not to sue agreement attached hereto as
Exhibit O and (2) the assignment letter attached hereto as Exhibit P.

          (b)  Parent shall use commercially reasonable efforts to execute and
deliver (and the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the
Major Stockholders to execute and deliver): (1) that certain Amended and
Restated Investor Rights Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit Q; and (2) that
certain Co-Sale Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit R.

          (c)  The Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause
the Company's indebtedness existing as of immediately prior to the Closing to
the Bank to be repaid and the indebtedness due and payable to the Major
Stockholders under the Loan Agreement to be contributed to the capital of the
Company.

     5.11 Termination of Certain Agreements.

          (a)  The Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure
that the Investor Rights Agreement of the Company dated February 1, 1999 and the
Registration Rights Agreement of the Company dated February 1, 1999 are
terminated prior to the Closing:

          (b)  The Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to ensure
that all provisions in Contracts that provide any Person with rights of any
nature with respect to the board of directors of the Company (except as provided
generally by the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws (or similar
organizational documents) or by applicable Legal Requirements) are validly and
effectively terminated as of the Effective Time.

     5.12 FIRPTA Matters. At the Closing, (a) the Company shall deliver to
Parent a statement (in such form as may be reasonably requested by counsel to
Parent) conforming to the

                                      45.
<PAGE>

requirements of Section 1.897 - 2(h)(1)(i) of the United States Treasure
Regulations, and (b) the Company shall deliver to the Internal Revenue Service
the notification required under Section 1.897 - 2(h)(2) of the United States
Treasury Regulations.

     5.13  Employee and Related Matters.

           (a)  The Company shall take any and all actions that are necessary
prior to the Closing to terminate its status as a participating employer/sponsor
of the AXYS qualified retirement plan (the "AXYS 401(k) Plan") so that the
employees of the Acquired Corporations will no longer be eligible to participate
in the AXYS 401(k) Plan as of a date that is prior to the Closing Date. Those
employees of the Acquired Corporations that continue to be employees of Parent
or any of its affiliates, including the Company, following the Closing would,
subject to any necessary transition period and the terms of such plans, be
eligible to participate in Parent's health, vacation, employee stock purchase,
stock option, 401(k) and other plans, to the same extent as comparably situated
employees of Parent and would receive credit under Parent's benefit plans for
service as an employee of the Acquired Corporations. Parent shall exercise
commercially reasonable efforts to minimize the duration of any necessary
transition period and to amend or replace Parent's existing plans as Parent, in
its reasonable discretion believes necessary to comply with this Section
5.13(a).

           (b)  At the Closing, the Company shall terminate its 2000 Incentive
Compensation Plan and its 2000 Merit Compensation Plan, and shall ensure that no
employee or former employee of any Acquired Corporation has any rights under any
of such Plans and that any liabilities of the Acquired Corporations under such
Plans (including any such liabilities relating to services performed prior to
the Closing) are fully extinguished at no cost to the Acquired Corporations.

SECTION 6. Conditions Precedent To Obligations Of Parent And Merger Sub

           The obligations of Parent and Merger Sub to effect the Merger
and otherwise consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are
subject to the satisfaction, at or prior to the Closing, of each of the
following conditions:

     6.1   Accuracy of Representations. Each of the representations and
warranties made by the Company in this Agreement and in each of the other
agreements and instruments delivered to Parent in connection with the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have been accurate in all
material respects as of the date of this Agreement (except to the extent that
such representations and warranties relate to a specific date, in which case
such representations and warranties shall be accurate on and as of such specific
date), and shall be accurate in all material respects as of the Closing as if
made at the Closing (except to the extent that such representations and
warranties relate to a specific date, in which case such representations and
warranties shall be accurate on and as of such specific date); provided,
however, that for purposes of determining the accuracy of such representations
and warranties for purposes of this Section 6.1, all "Material Adverse Effect,"
other materiality qualifications and other similar qualifications contained in
such representations and warranties shall be disregarded.

                                      46.
<PAGE>

     6.2  Performance of Covenants. All of the covenants and obligations that
the Company is required to comply with or to perform at or prior to the Closing
shall have been complied with and performed in all material respects.

     6.3  Stockholder Approval. The adoption of this Agreement and the approval
of the transactions contemplated hereby shall have been duly approved by the
affirmative vote of all of the shares of Company Series A Preferred Stock and at
least 95% of the shares of Company Common Stock entitled to vote with respect
thereto.

     6.4  Consents. All Consents required to be obtained in connection with the
Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement (including the
Consents identified in Part 2.21 of the Company Disclosure Schedule) shall have
been obtained and shall be in full force and effect.

     6.5  Agreements and Documents. Parent and the Company shall have received
the following agreements and documents, each of which shall be in full force and
effect:

          (a)  Employment Agreements in the form of Exhibit H, executed by the
     individuals identified on Exhibit G;

          (b)  Noncompetition Agreements in the form of Exhibit F, executed by
     the Major Stockholders;

          (c)  Releases in the form of Exhibit I, executed by the Major
     Stockholders;

          (d)  the statement referred to in Section 5.12, executed by the
     Company;

          (e)  the documents listed as Exhibits to this Agreement set forth in
     Section 5.10(a);

          (f)  a legal opinion of Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe LLP, dated as
     of the Closing Date, in the form of Exhibit S;

          (g)  a legal opinion of Cooley Godward LLP (or, if Cooley Godward LLP
     for any reason does not render such legal opinion, a legal opinion of
     Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe LLP), dated as of the Closing Date, to the
     effect that the Merger will constitute a reorganization within the meaning
     of Section 368 of the Code (it being understood that, in rendering such
     opinion, such counsel may rely upon the tax representation letters referred
     to in Section 5.5;

          (h)  written resignations of all directors and officers of the
     Company, effective as of the Effective Time;

          (i)  an Underwriter Lock-up Agreement in the form of Exhibit J,
     executed by each of the Major Stockholders;

          (j)  an Escrow Agreement in the form of Exhibit C, executed by the
     Stockholders' Agent and the Stockholders' Agent;

                                      47.
<PAGE>

          (k)  the Amended and Restated Investor Rights Agreement in the form of
     Exhibit Q, executed by each of the Major Stockholders;

          (l)  the Amended and Restated Co-Sale Agreement in the form of Exhibit
     R, executed by each of the Major Stockholders; and

          (m)  a certificate executed by the Chief Executive Officer of the
     Company and containing the representation and warranty of each of them that
     the conditions set forth in Sections 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.6 and 6.8 have
     been duly satisfied (the "Company Closing Certificate").

     6.6  Absence of Material Adverse Effect. Since the date of this Agreement,
there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Effect on the Company, and no
event shall have occurred or circumstance shall exist that, in combination with
any other events or circumstances, could reasonably be expected to have a
Material Adverse Effect on the Company.

     6.7  HSR Act. The waiting period applicable to the consummation of the
exercise of the PPD Call, as such term is defined in the Company's Investor
Rights Agreement, under the HSR Act shall have expired or been terminated, and
there shall not be in effect any voluntary agreement between PPD and the Federal
Trade Commission or the Department of Justice pursuant to which PPD has agreed
not to consummate the exercise of the PPD Call for any period of time; any
similar waiting period applicable to the Merger or the exercise of the PPD Call
under any applicable foreign antitrust law or regulation shall have expired or
been terminated; and any Consent required under any applicable foreign antitrust
law or regulation in connection with the Merger or the exercise of the PPD call
shall have been obtained.

     6.8  FIRPTA Compliance. The Company shall have filed with the Internal
Revenue Service the notification referred to in Section 5.12.

     6.9  No Restraints. No temporary restraining order, preliminary or
permanent injunction or other order preventing the consummation of the Merger
shall have been issued by any court of competent jurisdiction and remain in
effect, and there shall not be any Legal Requirement enacted or deemed
applicable to the Merger that makes consummation of the Merger illegal.

     6.10 No Legal Proceedings. No Person shall have commenced or threatened to
commence any Legal Proceeding (a) challenging or seeking the recovery of a
material amount of damages in connection with the Merger, (b) seeking to
prohibit or limit the exercise by Parent of any material right pertaining to its
ownership of stock of the Surviving Corporation, or (c) claiming to own any
capital stock of the Company, or option or other right to acquire capital stock
of the Company or any other Acquired Corporation, or right to receive
consideration as a result of the Merger.

     6.11 Employees. Parent shall have received assurances reasonably
satisfactory to it that none of the individuals identified on Exhibit G shall
have ceased to be employed by, or expressed an intention to terminate their
employment with, the Company.

                                      48.
<PAGE>

     6.12  Termination of Certain Agreements. The Company shall have provided
Parent with evidence, reasonably satisfactory to Parent, as to the termination
of those agreements listed in Section 5.11.

     6.13  Closing of Series C Investment. Parent and PPD shall have closed the
acquisition of Parent Series C Preferred Stock by PPD (the "Series C
Investment").

     6.14  Amended and Restated Certificate. The Amended and Restated
Certificate shall have been accepted for filing by the Secretary of State of the
State of Delaware.

     6.15  Company Amended and Restated Certificate. The Company Amended and
Restated Certificate shall have been accepted for filing by the Secretary of
State of the State of Delaware.

SECTION 7. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY

           The obligations of the Company to effect the Merger and otherwise
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to the
satisfaction, at or prior to the Closing, of the following conditions:

     7.1   Accuracy of Representations. Each of the representations and
warranties made by Parent and Merger Sub in this Agreement shall have been
accurate in all material respects as of the date of this Agreement (except to
the extent that such representations and warranties relate to a specific date,
in which case such representations and warranties shall be accurate on and as of
such specific date), and shall be accurate in all material respects as of the
Closing as if made at the Closing (except to the extent that such
representations and warranties relate to a specific date, in which case such
representations and warranties shall be accurate on and as of such specific
date); provided, however, that for purposes of determining the accuracy of such
representations and warranties for purposes of this Section 7.1, all "Material
Adverse Effect," other materiality qualifications and other similar
qualifications contained in such representations and warranties shall be
disregarded.

     7.2   Performance of Covenants. All of the covenants and obligations that
Parent and Merger Sub are required to comply with or to perform at or prior to
the Closing shall have been complied with and performed in all material
respects.

     7.3   Documents. The Company shall have received the following documents:

           (a) a legal opinion of Cooley Godward LLP, dated as of the Closing
     Date, in the form of Exhibit T;

           (b) a legal opinion of Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe LLP (or, if
     Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe LLP for any reason does not render such
     legal opinion, a legal opinion of Cooley Godward LLP), dated as of the
     Closing Date, to the effect that the Merger will constitute a
     reorganization within the meaning of Section 368 of the Code (it being
     understood that, in rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely upon the
     tax representation letters referred to in Section 5.6; and

                                      49.
<PAGE>

           (c)  an Escrow Agreement in the form of Exhibit C, executed by Parent
     and the Escrow Agent, which Escrow Agreement shall be in full force and
     effect.

     7.4   No Restraints. No temporary restraining order, preliminary or
permanent injunction or other order preventing the consummation of the Merger
shall have been issued by any court of competent jurisdiction and remain in
effect, and there shall not be any Legal Requirement enacted or deemed
applicable to the Merger that makes consummation of the Merger illegal.

     7.5   Absence of Material Adverse Effect. Since the date of this Agreement,
there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Effect on Parent, and no
event shall have occurred or circumstance shall exist that, in combination with
any other events or circumstances, could reasonably be expected to have a
Material Adverse Effect on Parent.

     7.6   HSR Act. The waiting period applicable to the consummation of the
exercise of the PPD Call under the HSR Act shall have expired or been
terminated, and there shall not be in effect any voluntary agreement between PPD
and the Federal Trade Commission or the Department of Justice pursuant to which
PPD has agreed not to consummate the exercise of the PPD Call for any period of
time; any similar waiting period applicable to the Merger or the exercise of the
PPD Call under any applicable foreign antitrust law or regulation shall have
expired or been terminated; and any Consent required under any applicable
foreign antitrust law or regulation in connection with the Merger or the
exercise of the PPD Call shall have been obtained.

     7.7   Amended and Restated Certificate. The Amended and Restated
Certificate shall have been accepted for filing by the Secretary of State of the
State of Delaware.

     7.8   Director Appointment. The Company shall have received evidence
reasonably satisfactory to it that immediately after the Closing, PPD shall have
the right to appoint one member of the board of directors of Parent.

     7.9   Company Amended and Restated Certificate. The Company Amended and
Restated Certificate shall have been accepted for filing by the Secretary of
State of the State of Delaware.

     7.10  Closing of Series C Investment. Parent and PPD shall have closed the
Series C Investment.

SECTION 8. Termination

     8.1   Termination Events. This Agreement may be terminated prior to the
Closing:

           (a) by Parent if Parent reasonably determines that the timely
     satisfaction of any condition set forth in Section 6 has become impossible
     (other than as a result of any failure on the part of Parent or Merger Sub
     to comply with or perform any covenant or obligation of Parent or Merger
     Sub set forth in this Agreement);

                                      50.
<PAGE>

           (b) by the Company if the Company reasonably determines that the
     timely satisfaction of any condition set forth in Section 7 has become
     impossible (other than as a result of any failure on the part of the
     Company to comply with or perform any covenant or obligation set forth in
     this Agreement or in any other agreement or instrument delivered to
     Parent);

           (c) by Parent if the Closing has not taken place on or before January
     15, 2001 (other than as a result of any failure on the part of Parent to
     comply with or perform any covenant or obligation of Parent set forth in
     this Agreement);

           (d) by the Company if the Closing has not taken place on or before
     January 15, 2001 (other than as a result of the failure on the part of the
     Company to comply with or perform any covenant or obligation set forth in
     this Agreement or in any other agreement or instrument delivered to
     Parent);

           (e) by either Parent or the Company if a Governmental Body shall have
     issued a final and nonappealable order, decree or ruling, or shall have
     taken any other action, having the effect of permanently restraining,
     enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the Merger; or

           (f) by the mutual consent of Parent and the Company.

     8.2   Termination Procedures. If Parent wishes to terminate this Agreement
pursuant to Section 8.1(a), Section 8.1(c) or Section 8.1(e), Parent shall
deliver to the Company a written notice stating that Parent is terminating this
Agreement and setting forth a brief description of the basis on which Parent is
terminating this Agreement. If the Company wishes to terminate this Agreement
pursuant to Section 8.1(b), Section 8.1(d) or Section 8.1(e), the Company shall
deliver to Parent a written notice stating that the Company is terminating this
Agreement and setting forth a brief description of the basis on which the
Company is terminating this Agreement.

     8.3   Effect of Termination. If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to
Section 8.1, all further obligations of the parties under this Agreement shall
terminate; provided, however, that: (a) neither the Company nor Parent shall be
relieved of any obligation or liability arising from any prior breach by such
party of any provision of this Agreement; (b) the parties shall, in all events,
remain bound by and continue to be subject to the provisions set forth in
Section 10; and (c) the Company shall, in all events, remain bound by and
continue to be subject to Section 5.4.

SECTION 9. Indemnification, Etc.

     9.1   Survival of Representations, Etc.

           (a) The representations and warranties made by the parties (including
the representations and warranties set forth in Section 2 and Section 3) shall
survive until the February 28, 2002 (the "Termination Date"); provided, however,
that if, at any time prior to the Termination Date, any Parent Indemnitee or
Stockholder Indemnitee (acting in good faith) delivers to the Stockholders'
Agent or Parent, as the case may be, a written notice alleging the

                                      51.
<PAGE>

existence of an inaccuracy in or a breach of any of the representations and
warranties made by the Company, on the one hand, or Parent and Merger Sub, on
the other hand, (and setting forth in reasonable detail the basis for such
Indemnitee's belief that such an inaccuracy or breach may exist) and asserting a
claim for recovery under Section 9.2 based on such alleged inaccuracy or breach,
then the claim asserted in such notice shall survive the Termination Date until
such time as such claim is fully and finally resolved.

          (b)  The representations, warranties, covenants and obligations of the
Company, on the one hand, and Parent and Merger Sub, on the other hand, and the
rights and remedies that may be exercised by the Indemnitees, shall not be
limited or otherwise affected by or as a result of any information furnished to,
or any investigation made by or knowledge of, any of the Indemnitees or any of
their Representatives.

          (c)  For purposes of this Agreement, (i) each statement or other item
of information set forth in the Company Disclosure Schedule or in any update to
the Company Disclosure Schedule shall be deemed to be a representation and
warranty made by the Company in this Agreement and (ii) each statement or other
item of information set forth in the Parent Disclosure Schedule or in any update
to the Parent Disclosure Schedule shall be deemed to be a representation and
warranty made by Parent and Merger Sub in this Agreement.

     9.2  Indemnification.

          (a)  Indemnification by Major Stockholders. From and after the Closing
(but subject to Section 9.1(a), 9.3 and 9.4), the Major Stockholders, jointly
and severally shall hold harmless and indemnify each of the Parent Indemnitees
from and against, and shall compensate and reimburse each of the Parent
Indemnitees for, any Damages that are suffered or incurred by any of the Parent
Indemnitees or to which any of the Parent Indemnitees may otherwise become
subject (regardless of whether or not such Damages relate to any third-party
claim) and that arise from or as a result of, or are directly or indirectly
connected with: (i) any inaccuracy in or breach of any representation or
warranty made by the Company in Section 2 of this Agreement (without giving
effect to any "Material Adverse Effect" or other materiality qualification or
any similar qualification contained or incorporated directly in such
representation or warranty, and without giving effect to any update to the
Company Disclosure Schedule delivered by the Company to Parent prior to the
Closing); (ii) any inaccuracy in or breach of any representation or warranty
made by the Company in Section 2 as if such representation and warranty had been
made on and as of the Closing Date (except for such representations and
warranties that address matters only as of a particular time, which need only be
accurate as of such time) (after having given effect to any updates to the
Company Disclosure Schedule delivered to Parent prior to the Closing pursuant to
Section 4.3(b), but without giving effect to any "Material Adverse Effect" or
other materiality qualification or any similar qualification contained or
incorporated directly in such representation or warranty); (iii) any breach of
any covenant or obligation of the Company in this Agreement to be performed
prior to the Closing (including, without limitation, the covenants set forth in
Sections 4 and 5); (iv) any claim or demand made by the Company's legal counsel,
accountants, the Company Financial Advisors or other advisors with respect to
fees, costs or expenses payable to them in connection with the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement to the extent that such fees, costs and expenses
constitute Excess Transaction Expenses and exceed the Excess Transaction
Expenses,

                                      52.
<PAGE>

if any, used in determining the Parent Share Number in Section 1.5; or (v) any
Legal Proceeding relating to (Y) any inaccuracy or breach of the type referred
to in clause "(i)," "(ii)" or "(iii)" above or (Z) any claim or demand of the
type referred to in clause "(iv)" above (including with respect to each of
clause "(Y)" and clause "(Z)" of this clause "(v)," any Legal Proceeding
commenced by any Parent Indemnitee for the purpose of enforcing any of its
rights under this Section 9).

          (b)  Indemnification by Parent. From and after the Closing (but
subject to Section 9.1(a), 9.3 and 9.4), Parent shall hold harmless and
indemnify each of the Stockholder Indemnitees from and against, and shall
compensate and reimburse each of the Stockholder Indemnitees for, any Damages
that are suffered or incurred by any of the Stockholder Indemnitees or to which
any of the Stockholder Indemnitees may otherwise become subject (regardless of
whether or not such Damages relate to any third-party claim) and that arise from
or as a result of, or are directly or indirectly connected with: (i) any
inaccuracy in or breach of any representation or warranty made by Parent and
Merger Sub in Section 3 of this Agreement (without giving effect to any
"Material Adverse Effect" or other materiality qualification or any similar
qualification contained or incorporated directly in such representation or
warranty, and without giving effect to any update to the Parent Disclosure
delivered by Parent to the Company prior to the Closing); (ii) any inaccuracy in
or breach of any representation or warranty made by Parent and Merger Sub in
Section 3 as if such representation and warranty had been made on and as of the
Closing Date (except for such representations and warranties that address
matters only as of a particular time, which need only be accurate as of such
time) (after having given effect to any updates to the Parent Disclosure
Schedule delivered to the Company prior to the Closing pursuant to Section
4.4(b), but without giving effect to any "Material Adverse Effect" or other
materiality qualification or any similar qualification contained or incorporated
directly in such representation or warranty); (iii) any breach of any covenant
or obligation of Parent or Merger Sub in this Agreement to be performed prior to
the Closing (including, without limitation, the covenants set forth in Sections
4 and 5); or (iv) any Legal Proceeding relating to any inaccuracy or breach of
the type referred to in clause "(i)," "(ii)" or "(iii)" above (including any
Legal Proceeding commenced by any Stockholder Indemnitee for the purpose of
enforcing any of its rights under this Section 9).

     9.3  Deductible. The Major Stockholders, on the one hand, and Parent, on
the other hand, shall not be required to make any indemnification payment
pursuant to Section 9.2(a) or Section 9.2(b), as the case may be, for any
inaccuracy in or breach of any of (a) the Company's representations and
warranties set forth in this Agreement (in the case of the Major Stockholders)
or (b) Parent and Merger Sub's representations and warranties in this Agreement
(in the case of Parent) until such time as the total amount of all Damages
(including, without limitation, the Damages arising from such inaccuracy or
breach and all other Damages arising from any other inaccuracies in or breaches
of any representations or warranties) that have been directly or indirectly
suffered or incurred by any one or more of the Parent Indemnitees or the
Stockholder Indemnitees, as the case may be, or to which any one or more of the
Parent Indemnitees or the Stockholder Indemnitees, as the case may be, has or
have otherwise become subject, exceeds $500,000 in the aggregate. If the total
amount of such Damages exceeds $500,000, then the Parent Indemnitees or the
Stockholder Indemnitees, as the case may be, shall be entitled to be indemnified
against and compensated and reimbursed only for the portion of such Damages that
exceeds $500,000. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, no individual claim or
series of

                                      53.
<PAGE>

related claims for indemnification under this Section 9 may be asserted unless
it is (or they are) for an amount in excess of $15,000.

     9.4  Exclusive Remedy for Monetary Damages.

          (a)  From and after the Closing, the total aggregate liability of the
Major Stockholders for Damages arising under Section 9.2(a) shall not exceed the
Escrow Fund. From and after the Closing, the total aggregate liability of Parent
for Damages arising under Section 9.2(b) shall not exceed a cash amount equal to
the aggregate value (as of the Closing Date) of the Parent Capital Stock held in
the Escrow Fund.

          (b)  Nothing in this Section 9.4 or elsewhere in this Agreement shall
affect the parties' rights to specific performance or other equitable remedies
with respect to the covenants referred to in this Agreement to be performed
after the Closing.

          (c)  In the absence of fraud or intentional misconduct, from and after
the Closing, this Section 9 sets forth the exclusive remedy for monetary Damages
owing from the Indemnitors to the Indemnitees that arise from the matters
described in Section 9.2.

     9.5  No Contribution.

No stockholder of the Company shall have any right of contribution, right of
indemnity or other right or remedy against the Surviving Corporation in
connection with any indemnification obligation or any other liability to which
he may become subject under or in connection with this Agreement.

     9.6  Interest. If the Major Stockholders, on the one hand, or Parent, on
the other hand, are required to hold harmless, indemnify, compensate or
reimburse any Parent Indemnitee or Stockholder Indemnitee, as the case may be,
pursuant to this Section 9 with respect to any Damages, then the Major
Stockholders or Parent, as the case may be, shall also be liable to such Parent
Indemnitee or Stockholder Indemitee, as the case may be, for interest on the
amount of such Damages (for the period commencing as of the date on which such
the Major Stockholders or Parent, as the case may be, first received notice of a
claim for recovery by such Parent Indemnitee or Stockholder Indemnitee, as the
case may be, and ending on the date on which the liability of the Major
Stockholders or Parent, as the case may be, to is fully satisfied) at a floating
rate equal to the rate of interest publicly announced by Bank of America, N.T. &
S.A. from time to time as its prime, base or reference rate.

     9.7  Defense of Third Party Claims. In the event of the assertion or
commencement by any Person of any claim or Legal Proceeding (whether against the
Surviving Corporation, against Parent or against any other Person) with respect
to which any of the Major Stockholders may become obligated to hold harmless,
indemnify, compensate or reimburse any Indemnitee pursuant to this Section 9,
Parent shall have the right, at its election, to proceed with the defense of
such claim or Legal Proceeding on its own. If Parent so proceeds with the
defense of any such claim or Legal Proceeding:

          (a)  all reasonable expenses relating to the defense of such claim or
     Legal Proceeding shall be borne and paid exclusively by the Major
     Stockholders;

                                      54.
<PAGE>

            (b) each Major Stockholder shall make available to Parent any
     documents and materials in his possession or control that may be necessary
     to the defense of such claim or Legal Proceeding; and

            (c) Parent shall not have the right to settle, adjust or compromise
     such claim or Legal Proceeding with the consent of the Stockholders' Agent
     (as defined in Section 10.1); provided, however, that such consent shall
     not be unreasonably withheld.

Parent shall give the Stockholders' Agent prompt notice of the commencement of
any such Legal Proceeding against Parent or the Surviving Corporation; provided,
however, that any failure on the part of Parent to so notify the Stockholders'
Agent shall not limit any of the obligations of the Major Stockholder under this
Section 9 (except to the extent such failure materially prejudices the defense
of such Legal Proceeding).

     9.8    Exercise of Remedies by Parent Indemnitees Other Than Parent. No
Parent Indemnitee (other than Parent or any successor thereto or assign thereof)
shall be permitted to assert any indemnification claim or exercise any other
remedy under this Agreement unless Parent (or any successor thereto or assign
thereof) shall have consented to the assertion of such indemnification claim or
the exercise of such other remedy.

SECTION 10. Miscellaneous Provisions

     10.1   Stockholders' Agents. By virtue of their adoption of this Agreement
and approval of the transactions contemplated hereby, the stockholders of the
Company hereby irrevocably appoint Bill Newell and Fred Davenport as their joint
agents for purposes of Section 9 (the "Stockholders' Agents"), and Bill Newell
and Fred Davenport hereby accept their appointment as the Stockholders' Agents.
Parent shall be entitled to deal exclusively with the Stockholders' Agents on
all matters relating to Section 9, and shall be entitled to rely conclusively
(without further evidence of any kind whatsoever) on any document executed or
purported to be executed on behalf of any Merger Stockholder by both of the
Stockholders' Agents, and on any other action taken or purported to be taken on
behalf of any Merger Stockholder by the Stockholders' Agents, as fully binding
upon such stockholder. If one of the Stockholders' Agents shall die, become
disabled or otherwise be unable to fulfill his responsibilities as agent of the
Merger Stockholders, then the Merger Stockholders shall, within ten days after
such death or disability, appoint a successor agent and, promptly thereafter,
shall notify Parent of the identity of such successor. Any such successor shall
become a "Stockholders' Agents" for purposes of Section 9 and this Section 10.1.
If for any reason there is no Stockholders' Agent at any time, all references
herein to the Stockholders' Agents shall be deemed to refer to the Merger
Stockholders.

     10.2   Further Assurances. Each party hereto shall execute and cause to be
delivered to each other party hereto such instruments and other documents, and
shall take such other actions, as such other party may reasonably request (prior
to, at or after the Closing) for the purpose of carrying out or evidencing any
of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

     10.3   Fees and Expenses. Subject to Section 9.2(a), each party to this
Agreement shall bear and pay all fees, costs and expenses (including legal fees,
costs and expenses and

                                      55.
<PAGE>

accounting fees, costs and expenses) that have been incurred or that are
incurred by such party in connection with the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement.

     10.4   Attorneys' Fees. If any action or proceeding relating to this
Agreement or the enforcement of any provision of this Agreement is brought
against any party hereto, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover
reasonable attorneys' fees, costs and disbursements (in addition to any other
relief to which the prevailing party may be entitled).

     10.5   Notices. Any notice or other communication required or permitted to
be delivered to any party under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be
deemed properly delivered, given and received when delivered (by hand, by
registered mail, by courier or express delivery service or by facsimile) to the
address or facsimile telephone number set forth beneath the name of such party
below (or to such other address or facsimile telephone number as such party
shall have specified in a written notice given to the other parties hereto):

            if to Parent:

            DNA Sciences, Inc.
            2375 Garcia Avenue
            Mountain View, CA. 94043
            Attention:
            Phone: (650)
            Fax: (650)

            with a copy to:

            Cooley Godward LLP
            3000 El Camino Real
            5 Palo Alto Square
            Palo Alto, CA 94306
            Attention: Robert L. Jones
            Phone: (650) 843-5000
            Fax: (650) 849-7400

            if to the Company:

            PPGx, Inc.
            11099 North Torrey Pines Road
            La Jolla, CA 92037
            Attention: Josh Baker
            Phone: (919) 463-6702
            Fax: (919) 379-6029

            with a copy to:

            Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe LLP

                                      56.
<PAGE>

            4250 Executive Square, 7/th/ Floor
            La Jolla, CA 92037
            Attention: Stephen C. Ferruolo
            Phone: (858) 450-8430
            Fax: (858) 450-8499


            if to the Stockholders' Agents:

            Fred Davenport
            Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc.
            3151 South 17/th/ Street
            Wilmington, NC 28412
            Phone: (910) 251-0081
            Fax: (910) 772-6951

            Bill Newell
            Axys Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
            180 Kimball Way
            South San Francisco, CA 94080
            Phone: (650) 829-1000
            Fax: (650) 829-1001

     10.6   Confidentiality. Without limiting the generality of anything
contained in Section 5.6, on and at all times after the Closing Date, each party
to this Agreement shall keep confidential, and shall not use or disclose to any
other Person, any non-public document or other non-public information in such
stockholder's possession that relates to the business of the Company or Parent.

     10.7   Time of the Essence. Time is of the essence of this Agreement.

     10.8   Headings. The underlined headings contained in this Agreement are
for convenience of reference only, shall not be deemed to be a part of this
Agreement and shall not be referred to in connection with the construction or
interpretation of this Agreement.

     10.9   Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which, when
taken together, shall constitute one agreement.

     10.10  Governing Law. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with,
and governed in all respects by, the internal laws of the State of Delaware
(without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws).

     10.11  Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding upon the
Company and its successors and assigns (if any), Parent and its successors and
assigns (if any), and Merger Sub and its successors and assigns (if any). This
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of: the Company, the Company's stockholders
(to the extent set forth in Section 1.5) and the

                                      57.
<PAGE>

Stockholder Indemnitees (to the extent set forth in Section 9), the holders of
assumed Company Options (to the extent set forth in Section 1.6), Parent, Merger
Sub, the other Parent Indemnitees (subject to Section 9.6), and the respective
successors and assigns (if any) of the foregoing. Parent may freely assign any
or all of its rights under Section 9, in whole or in part, to any other Person
without obtaining the consent or approval of any other party hereto or of any
other Person.

     10.12  Remedies Cumulative; Specific Performance. The rights and remedies
of the parties hereto shall be cumulative (and not alternative). The parties to
this Agreement agree that, in the event of any breach or threatened breach by
any party to this Agreement of any covenant, obligation or other provision set
forth in this Agreement for the benefit of any other party to this Agreement,
such other party shall be entitled (in addition to any other remedy that may be
available to it) to (a) a decree or order of specific performance or mandamus to
enforce the observance and performance of such covenant, obligation or other
provision, and (b) an injunction restraining such breach or threatened breach.

     10.13  Waiver.

            (a)  No failure on the part of any Person to exercise any power,
right, privilege or remedy under this Agreement, and no delay on the part of any
Person in exercising any power, right, privilege or remedy under this Agreement,
shall operate as a waiver of such power, right, privilege or remedy; and no
single or partial exercise of any such power, right, privilege or remedy shall
preclude any other or further exercise thereof or of any other power, right,
privilege or remedy.

            (b)  No Person shall be deemed to have waived any claim arising out
of this Agreement, or any power, right, privilege or remedy under this
Agreement, unless the waiver of such claim, power, right, privilege or remedy is
expressly set forth in a written instrument duly executed and delivered on
behalf of such Person; and any such waiver shall not be applicable or have any
effect except in the specific instance in which it is given.

     10.14  Amendments. This Agreement may not be amended, modified, altered or
supplemented other than by means of a written instrument duly executed and
delivered on behalf of all of the parties hereto.

     10.15  Severability. In the event that any provision of this Agreement, or
the application of any such provision to any Person or set of circumstances,
shall be determined to be invalid, unlawful, void or unenforceable to any
extent, the remainder of this Agreement, and the application of such provision
to Persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is determined to be
invalid, unlawful, void or unenforceable, shall not be impaired or otherwise
affected and shall continue to be valid and enforceable to the fullest extent
permitted by law.

     10.16  Parties in Interest. Except for the provisions of Sections 1.5, 1.6
and 9, none of the provisions of this Agreement is intended to provide any
rights or remedies to any Person other than the parties hereto and their
respective successors and assigns (if any).

     10.17  Entire Agreement. This Agreement and the other agreements referred
to herein set forth the entire understanding of the parties hereto relating to
the subject matter hereof and

                                      58.
<PAGE>

thereof and supersede all prior agreements and understandings among or between
any of the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and thereof; provided,
however, that the Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure Agreement executed on
behalf of Parent and the Company on September 6, 2000 shall not be superseded by
this Agreement and shall remain in effect in accordance with its terms until the
earlier of (a) the Effective Time, or (b) the date on which such Confidentiality
and Nondisclosure Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms.

     10.18  Construction.

            (a)  For purposes of this Agreement, whenever the context requires:
the singular number shall include the plural, and vice versa; the masculine
gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders; the feminine gender shall
include the masculine and neuter genders; and the neuter gender shall include
the masculine and feminine genders.

            (b)  The parties hereto agree that any rule of construction to the
effect that ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party shall not
be applied in the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.

            (c)  As used in this Agreement, the words "include" and "including,"
and variations thereof, shall not be deemed to be terms of limitation, but
rather shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation."

            (d)  Except as otherwise indicated, all references in this Agreement
to "Sections" and "Exhibits" are intended to refer to Sections of this Agreement
and Exhibits to this Agreement.

                                      59.
<PAGE>

     The parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed and delivered
as of December 17, 2000.

                                  DNA Sciences, Inc.,
                                   a Delaware corporation

                            By: /s/ Steve B. Lehrer                       (SEAL)
                                -----------------------------------------
                             Name: Steve B. Lehrer                          .
                                   --------------------------------------
                             Title: Chief Business Officer                  .
                                    -------------------------------------




                                  PIPO Acquisition Corp.,
                                   a Delaware corporation

                            By: /s/ Steve B. Lehrer                       (SEAL)
                             --------------------------------------------
                             Name: Steve B. Lehrer                          .
                                   --------------------------------------
                             Title: President & Chief Executive Officer     .
                             --------------------------------------------



                                  PPGx, Inc.,
                                   a Delaware corporation

                            By: /s/ Joshua S. Baker                       (SEAL)
                                -----------------------------------------
                             Name: Joshua S. Baker                          .
                                   --------------------------------------
                             Title: President                               .
                                    -------------------------------------

                                      60.
<PAGE>

                                   EXHIBITS

Exhibit A   -   Certain definitions

Exhibit B   -   Form of Voting Agreement

Exhibit C   -   Form of Escrow Agreement

Exhibit D   -   Form of Amended and Restated Certificate

Exhibit E   -   Forms of tax representation letters

Exhibit F   -   Form of Noncompetition Agreement

Exhibit G   -   Persons to Execute Offer Letters

Exhibit H   -   Form of Offer Letter

Exhibit I   -   Form of Release

Exhibit J   -   Form of Underwriter Lockup Agreement

Exhibit K   -   Form of Amended and Restated Distributor Agreement

Exhibit L   -   Form of Amended and Restated Technology Transfer Agreement

Exhibit M   -   Form of PPD Clarification Letter

Exhibit N   -   Form of PPD Real Property Indemnity Letter

Exhibit O   -   Form of Axys Covenant Not to Sue

Exhibit P   -   Form of Axys Assignment Letter

Exhibit Q   -   Form of Amended and Restated Investor Rights Agreement

Exhibit R   -   Form of Amended and Restated Co-Sale Agreement

Exhibit S   -   Form of legal opinion of Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe LLP

Exhibit T   -   Form of legal opinion of Cooley Godward LLP

                                      1.
<PAGE>

                                   EXHIBIT A

                              CERTAIN DEFINITIONS

     For purposes of the Agreement (including this Exhibit A):

     Acquired Corporation Contract. "Acquired Corporation Contract" shall mean
any contract: (a) to which any of the Acquired Corporations is a party; (b) by
which any of the Acquired Corporations or any asset of any of the Acquired
Corporations is or may become bound or under which any of the Acquired
Corporations has, or may become subject to, any obligation; or (c) under which
any of the Acquired Corporations has or may acquire any right or interest.

     Acquired Corporation Proprietary Asset. "Acquired Corporation Proprietary
Asset" shall mean any Proprietary Asset owned by or licensed to any of the
Acquired Corporations or otherwise used by any of the Acquired Corporations.

     Acquisition Transaction. "Acquisition Transaction" shall mean any
transaction involving:

          (a)  the sale, license, disposition or acquisition of all or a
     material portion of the any of the Acquired Corporations' business or
     assets;

          (b)  the issuance, disposition or acquisition of (i) any capital stock
     or other equity security of any of the Acquired Corporations' (other than
     common stock issued to employees of the Acquired Corporations, upon
     exercise of Company Options or otherwise, in routine transactions in
     accordance with the Acquired Corporations' past practices), (ii) any
     option, call or right (whether or not immediately exercisable) to acquire
     any capital stock or other equity security of the any of the Acquired
     Corporations (other than stock options granted to employees of the Acquired
     Corporations in routine transactions in accordance with the Acquired
     Corporations' past practices), or (iii) any security, instrument or
     obligation that is or may become convertible into or exchangeable for any
     capital stock or other equity security of any of the Acquired Corporations;
     or

          (c)  any merger, consolidation, business combination, reorganization
     or similar transaction involving any of the Acquired Corporations.

     Agreement. "Agreement" shall mean the Agreement and Plan of Merger and
Reorganization to which this Exhibit A is attached (including the Company
Disclosure Schedule and the Parent Disclosure Schedule), as it may be amended
from time to time.

     Company Capital Stock. "Company Capital Stock" shall mean, collectively,
the Company Common Stock and the Company Series A Preferred Stock.

     Company Disclosure Schedule. "Company Disclosure Schedule" shall mean the
schedule (dated as of the date of the Agreement) delivered to Parent on behalf
of the Company.

     Consent. "Consent" shall mean any approval, consent, ratification,
permission, waiver or authorization (including any Governmental Authorization).

                                      1.
<PAGE>

     Contract. "Contract" shall mean any written, oral or other agreement,
contract, subcontract, lease, understanding, instrument, note, warranty,
insurance policy, benefit plan or legally binding commitment or undertaking of
any nature.

     Damages. "Damages" shall include any loss, damage, injury, decline in
value, lost opportunity, liability, claim, demand, settlement, judgment, award,
fine, penalty, Tax, fee (including reasonable attorneys' fees), charge, cost
(including costs of investigation) or expense of any nature.

     Encumbrance. "Encumbrance" shall mean any lien, pledge, hypothecation,
charge, mortgage, security interest, encumbrance, claim, infringement,
interference, option, right of first refusal, preemptive right, community
property interest or restriction of any nature (including any restriction on the
voting of any security, any restriction on the transfer of any security or other
asset, any restriction on the receipt of any income derived from any asset, any
restriction on the use of any asset and any restriction on the possession,
exercise or transfer of any other attribute of ownership of any asset).

     Entity. "Entity" shall mean any corporation (including any non-profit
corporation), general partnership, limited partnership, limited liability
partnership, joint venture, estate, trust, company (including any limited
liability company or joint stock company), firm or other enterprise,
association, organization or entity.

     Excess Transaction Expenses. "Excess Transaction Expenses" shall mean (A)
50% of the first $400,000 in aggregate fees, costs and expenses payable by the
Company to the Company's legal counsel, accountants and other advisors (other
than P2 Partners (the "Company Financial Advisor") and incurred in connection
with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, plus (B) 100% of the
aggregate fees, costs and expenses payable to the Company's legal counsel,
accountants and other advisors (other than the Company Financial Advisor) in
excess of $400,000 and incurred in connection with the transactions contemplated
by this Agreement, plus (C) all fees, costs and expenses payable by the Company
to the Company Financial Advisor and incurred in connection with the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

     Governmental Authorization. "Governmental Authorization" shall mean any:
(a) permit, license, certificate, franchise, permission, clearance,
registration, qualification or authorization issued, granted, given or otherwise
made available by or under the authority of any Governmental Body or pursuant to
any Legal Requirement; or (b) right under any Contract with any Governmental
Body.

     Governmental Body. "Governmental Body" shall mean any: (a) nation, state,
commonwealth, province, territory, county, municipality, district or other
jurisdiction of any nature; (b) federal, state, local, municipal, foreign or
other government; or (c) governmental or quasi-governmental authority or
component of any nature (including any governmental branch, division,
department, agency, commission, instrumentality, official, organization, unit,
body or Entity and any court or other tribunal).

     Indemnitees. "Indemnitees" shall mean the Parent Indemnitees and the
Stockholder Indemnitees.

                                      2.
<PAGE>

     Knowledge. Information shall be deemed "known to" or "to the Knowledge" of
the Company if that information is actually known by any of Josh Baker or Jeff
Hall or should be known to such individual after reasonable inquiry by such
individual. Information shall be deemed "known to" or "to the Knowledge" of
Parent if that information is actually known by any officer or director of
Parent or should be known to such officer or director after reasonable inquiry
by such officer or director.

     Legal Proceeding. "Legal Proceeding" shall mean any action, suit,
litigation, arbitration, proceeding (including any civil, criminal,
administrative, investigative or appellate proceeding), hearing, inquiry, audit,
examination or investigation commenced, brought, conducted or heard by or
before, or otherwise involving, any court or other Governmental Body or any
arbitrator or arbitration panel.

     Legal Requirement. "Legal Requirement" shall mean any federal, state,
local, municipal, foreign or other law, statute, constitution, principle of
common law, resolution, ordinance, code, edict, decree, rule, regulation,
publicly available administrative interpretation, ruling or requirement issued,
enacted, adopted, promulgated, implemented or otherwise put into effect by or
under the authority of any Governmental Body.

     Material Adverse Effect. A "Material Adverse Effect" on the Acquired
Corporations means any change, effect, event, occurrence, state of facts or
development that is materially adverse to the business, condition, assets,
liabilities, operations or financial performance of one or more of the Acquired
Corporations. A "Material Adverse Effect" on Parent means any change, effect,
event, occurrence, state of facts or development that is materially adverse to
the business, condition, assets, liabilities, operations or financial
performance of Parent; provided, however, that any adverse change, effect,
event, occurrence, state of facts or development affecting Parent's ability to
obtain or arrange public or private debt or equity financing on terms acceptable
to Parent or otherwise adversely affecting the financial markets in general or
the financial markets for the industry sector in which Parent competes shall not
be deemed to constitute, nor taken into account in determining whether there has
been, a Material Adverse Effect on Parent; provided further however, that any
adverse change, effect, event, occurrence, state of facts or development
referred to in the preceding proviso will be taken into account in determining
whether there has been a Material Adverse Effect on Parent (but will not in and
of itself constitute a Material Adverse Effect on Parent) if such adverse
change, effect, event, occurrence, state of facts or development resulted from
the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Parent or its Representatives and
such adverse change, effect, event, occurrence, state of facts or development
has resulted in an obligation of Parent to pay money damages in an amount in
excess of $300,000.

     Parent Disclosure Schedule. "Parent Disclosure Schedule" shall mean the
schedule (dated as of the date of the Agreement) delivered to the Company on
behalf of Parent and Merger Sub.

     Parent Indemnitees. "Parent Indemnitees" shall mean the following Persons:
(a) Parent; (b) Parent's current and future affiliates (including the Surviving
Corporation); (c) the respective Representatives of the Persons referred to in
clauses "(a)" and "(b)" above; and (d) the respective successors and assigns of
the Persons referred to in clauses "(a)", "(b)" and "(c)"

                                      3.
<PAGE>

above; provided, however, that the stockholders of the Company shall not be
deemed to be "Parent Indemnitees."

     Parent Preferred Stock. "Parent Preferred Stock" shall mean collectively,
the Series A Preferred Stock ($0.001 par value per share) of Parent, the Series
B Preferred Stock ($0.001 par value per share) of Parent, the Parent Series C
Preferred Stock and the Parent Series D Preferred Stock.

     Parent Series C Preferred Stock. "Parent Series C Preferred Stock" shall
mean the Series C Preferred Stock (0.001 par value per share) of Parent.

     Permitted Encumbrance. "Permitted Encumbrance" shall mean any (i) any
Encumbrance for Taxes (other than income taxes) either not yet due and payable
or being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which
adequate reserves have been established on the Acquired Corporation Financial
Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied
on a consistent basis throughout the periods covered and (ii) mechanic's,
materialmen's, workmen's, warehousemen's and other similar liens incurred in the
ordinary course of business with respect to obligations that are not past due or
that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which
adequate reserves have been established on the Acquired Corporation Financial
Statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied
on a consistent basis throughout the periods covered.

     Person. "Person" shall mean any individual, Entity or Governmental Body.

     Proprietary Asset. "Proprietary Asset" shall mean any: (a) patent, patent
application, trademark (whether registered or unregistered), trademark
application, trade name, fictitious business name, service mark (whether
registered or unregistered), service mark application, copyright (whether
registered or unregistered), copyright application, maskwork, maskwork
application, trade secret, know-how, customer list, franchise, system, computer
software, computer program, source code, algorithm, invention, design,
proprietary product, technology, proprietary right or other intellectual
property right or intangible asset; or (b) right to use or exploit any of the
foregoing.

     Representatives. "Representatives" shall mean officers, directors,
employees, agents, attorneys, accountants, advisors and representatives.

     Subsidiary. An entity shall be deemed to be a "Subsidiary" of another
Person if such Person directly or indirectly owns, beneficially or of record,
(a) an amount of voting securities of other interests in such Entity that is
sufficient to enable such Person to elect at least a majority of the members of
such Entity's board of directors or other governing body, or (b) at least 50% of
the outstanding equity or financial interests or such Entity.

     Stockholder Indemnitees. "Stockholder Indemnitees" shall mean the following
Persons: (a) the Merger Stockholders; (b) the Merger Stockholders' current and
future affiliates; (c) the respective Representatives of the Persons referred to
in clauses "(a)" and "(b)" above; and (d) the respective successors and assigns
of the Persons referred to in clauses "(a)", "(b)" and "(c)" above; provided,
however, that the Company shall not be deemed to be a "Stockholder Indemnitee."

                                      4.
<PAGE>

     Tax. "Tax" shall mean any tax (including any income tax, franchise tax,
capital gains tax, gross receipts tax, value-added tax, surtax, excise tax, ad
valorem tax, transfer tax, stamp tax, sales tax, use tax, property tax, business
tax, withholding tax or payroll tax), levy, assessment, tariff, duty (including
any customs duty), deficiency or fee, and any related charge or amount
(including any fine, penalty or interest), imposed, assessed or collected by or
under the authority of any Governmental Body.

     Tax Return. "Tax Return" shall mean any return (including any information
return), report, statement, declaration, estimate, schedule, notice,
notification, form, election, certificate or other document or information filed
with or submitted to, or required to be filed with or submitted to, any
Governmental Body in connection with the determination, assessment, collection
or payment of any Tax or in connection with the administration, implementation
or enforcement of or compliance with any Legal Requirement relating to any Tax.

                                      5.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2.7
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>0003.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SERIES C PREFERRED STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                     EXHIBIT 2.7


                              DNA SCIENCES, INC.

                 ____________________________________________

                  SERIES C PREFERRED STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT
                               December 17, 2000

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>

                               Table of Contents

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    Page
<S>                                                                 <C>
SECTION 1 Authorization of Series C Preferred Stock...............   1

      1.1  Authorization of Series C Preferred Stock..............   1

      1.2  Sale of Series C Preferred.............................   1

SECTION 2 Closing Date; Delivery..................................   1

      2.1  Closing Date...........................................   1

      2.2  Delivery...............................................   1

SECTION 3 Representations and Warranties of the Company...........   2

      3.1  Organization and Standing; Articles and Bylaws.........   2

      3.2  Corporate Power........................................   2

      3.3  Subsidiaries...........................................   2

      3.4  Capitalization.........................................   2

      3.5  Authorization..........................................   3

      3.6  Validity of Shares.....................................   3

      3.7  Title to Properties and Assets; Liens, etc.............   3

      3.8  Material Contracts and Commitments.....................   4

      3.9  Patents, Trademarks, etc...............................   4

     3.10  Compliance with Other Instruments......................   4

     3.11  Litigation, etc........................................   5

     3.12  Employees..............................................   5

     3.13  Insurance..............................................   5

     3.14  Registration Rights....................................   5

     3.15  Governmental Consents, etc.............................   5

     3.16  Offering...............................................   6

     3.17  Disclosure.............................................   6

     3.18  Brokers or Finders.....................................   6

     3.19  Permits................................................   6

     3.20  No Conflict of Interest................................   6

     3.21  Actions................................................   7

     3.22  Voting Rights..........................................   7

     3.23  Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreements......   7

     3.24  Employee Benefit Plans.................................   7

     3.25  Tax Returns and Payments...............................   7
</TABLE>

                                       i
<PAGE>

                               Table of Contents
                                  (CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    PAGE
<S>                                                                 <C>
     3.26  Corporate Documents....................................   7

     3.27  Environmental Matters..................................   7

     3.28  Investment Company Act.................................   8

     3.29  Tax Elections..........................................   8

     3.30  Financial Statements...................................   8

     3.31  Financial Condition....................................   8

     3.32  Qualified Small Business Stock.........................   9

     3.33  U.S. Real Property Holding Corporation.................   9

SECTION 4 Representations, Warranties and Covenants of Purchaser..   9

      4.1  Accredited Investor....................................   9

      4.2  Investment.............................................   9

      4.3  Restricted Securities; Rule 144........................   9

      4.4  No Public Market.......................................  10

      4.5  Access to Data.........................................  10

      4.6  Authorization..........................................  10

      4.7  Government Consents....................................  10

      4.8  Further Limitations on Disposition.....................  10

      4.9  Legends................................................  10

SECTION 5 Conditions to Closing of Purchaser......................  11

      5.1  Representations and Warranties Correct.................  11

      5.2  Covenants..............................................  11

      5.3  Compliance Certificate.................................  11

      5.4  Blue Sky...............................................  11

      5.5  Related Agreements.....................................  11

      5.6  Restated Certificate of Incorporation..................  11

      5.8  Opinion of Company Counsel.............................  12

SECTION 6 Conditions to Closing of the Company....................  12

      6.1  Representations........................................  12

      6.2  Blue Sky...............................................  12

      6.3  Related Agreements.....................................  12

      6.4  Restated Certificate of Incorporation..................  12

      6.5  The Merger.............................................  12

SECTION 7 Affirmative Covenants of the Company....................  12
</TABLE>

                                      ii
<PAGE>

                               Table of Contents
                                  (CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   PAGE
<S>                                                                <C>
      7.1  The Board of Directors.................................  12

      7.2  Proprietary Information Agreements.....................  12

      7.3  Option Vesting.........................................  12

      7.4  Insurance..............................................  13

      7.5  Termination of Covenants...............................  13

      7.6  U.S. Real Property Holding Corporation.................  13

SECTION 8 Miscellaneous...........................................  13

      8.1  Governing Law..........................................  13

      8.2  Survival...............................................  13

      8.3  Successors and Assigns.................................  13

      8.4  Entire Agreement; Amendment............................  13

      8.5  Waiver of Conflicts....................................  14

      8.6  Notices, etc...........................................  14

      8.7  Delays or Omissions....................................  14

      8.8  California Corporate Securities Law....................  14

      8.9  Counterparts...........................................  15

     8.10  Severability...........................................  15
</TABLE>

                                      iii
<PAGE>

                              DNA SCIENCES, INC.

                  SERIES C PREFERRED STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT

     This Agreement is made as of December 17, 2000, between DNA Sciences, Inc.,
a Delaware corporation (the "Company") and the entity listed on Exhibit A
("Purchaser").

                                   SECTION 1

              Authorization and Sale of Series C Preferred Stock

     1.1  Authorization of Series C Preferred Stock. The Company has authorized
the sale and issuance hereunder of up to Five Million Five Hundred Thousand
(5,500,000) shares of its Series C Preferred Stock (the "Series C Preferred"),
having the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions set forth in the
Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation in the form attached
hereto as Exhibit B (the "Restated Certificate"). The shares of Series C
Preferred to be sold hereunder are collectively referred to as the "Shares."

     1.2  Sale of Series C Preferred. Subject to the terms and conditions
hereof, the Company will issue and sell to Purchaser, and Purchaser will
purchase, at a purchase price of ten dollars and fifteen cents ($10.15) per
share from the Company, the number of shares of Series C Preferred specified
opposite the name of Purchaser listed on Exhibit A at the Closing (as
hereinafter defined).

                                   SECTION 2

                            Closing Date; Delivery

     2.1  Closing Date. The closing of the purchase and sale of the Series C
Preferred hereunder (the "Closing") shall be held at the offices of Cooley
Godward, 5 Palo Alto Square, 3000 El Camino Real, Palo Alto, California 94304 on
the date of the closing (the "Closing Date") of the merger of PIPO Acquisition
Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company
("Merger Sub"), with and into PPGx, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("PPGx"),
pursuant to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization, by and
among the Company, Merger Sub and PPGx, dated as of December [17], 2000 (the
"Reorganization Agreement"), pursuant to which PPGx shall become a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company (the "Merger"). On the Closing Date and immediately
prior to the closing of the Merger, pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the
Company shall issue and sell to Purchaser, and Purchaser shall purchase, at a
purchase price of ten dollars and fifteen cents ($10.15) per share from the
Company, the number of shares of Series C Preferred specified in the column
labeled "Total Number of Series C Shares" opposite the name of Purchaser listed
on Exhibit A.

     2.2  Delivery. At the Closing, the Company will deliver to Purchaser a
certificate or certificates representing the number of Shares set forth opposite
Purchaser's name on Exhibit A of this Agreement, against payment of the purchase
price therefor, by check or wire transfer payable to the Company.

                                       1
<PAGE>

                                   SECTION 3

                 Representations and Warranties of the Company

     Except as set forth on Exhibit C and other exhibits attached hereto, or
otherwise contemplated hereunder, the Company hereby represents and warrants to
Purchaser as of the date hereof as follows:

     3.1  Organization and Standing; Articles and Bylaws. The Company is a
corporation duly organized and validly existing under, and by virtue of, the
laws of the State of Delaware and is in good standing under such laws. The
Company has all requisite corporate power to own and operate its properties and
assets, and to carry on its business as presently conducted and as proposed to
be conducted. The Company is qualified to do business as a foreign corporation
in any jurisdiction in which failure to qualify would have a material adverse
effect on the Company's business. The Company has furnished Purchaser true and
complete copies of its Restated Certificate and Bylaws in effect as of the date
hereof.

     3.2  Corporate Power. The Company will have prior to the Closing Date all
requisite legal and corporate power to execute and deliver this Agreement and
the Amended and Restated Investor Rights Agreement in the form attached hereto
as Exhibit D (the "Investor Rights Agreement"), the Amended and Restated Right
of First Refusal and Co-Sale Agreement in the form attached hereto as Exhibit E
(the "Refusal Agreement") and the Voting Agreement in the form attached hereto
as Exhibit F (the "Voting Agreement") (the Investor Rights Agreement, the
Refusal Agreement and the Voting Agreement are collectively referred to as the
"Related Agreements"), to sell and issue the Shares hereunder, to issue the
Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Shares and to carry out and perform
its obligations under the terms of this Agreement and the Related Agreements and
the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.

     3.3  Subsidiaries. The Company has no subsidiaries or affiliated companies
and does not otherwise own or control any other corporation, association or
business entity. The Company has no other equity interest in any other
corporation, association or business entity.

     3.4  Capitalization. Immediately prior to the Closing, the authorized
capital stock of the Company consists of 40,000,000 shares of Common Stock,
4,721,364 shares of which are issued and outstanding, and 22,000,000 shares of
Preferred Stock, 8,283,000 shares of which are designated as Series A Preferred
Stock, all of which are issued and outstanding, 7,099,006 shares of which are
designated Series B Preferred Stock, all of which are issued and outstanding and
5,500,000 of which are designated as Series C Preferred Stock, 1,644,076 of
which are issued and outstanding.  All such issued and outstanding shares have
been duly authorized and validly issued, and are fully paid and non-assessable
and have been issued in compliance all federal and applicable state securities
laws.  The Company has reserved 8,283,000 shares of Common Stock for issuance
upon conversion of the Series A Preferred, 7,099,006 shares of Common Stock for
issuance upon conversion of the Series B Preferred,  5,500,000 shares of Common
Stock for issuance upon conversion of the Series C Preferred, 650,000 shares of
Common Stock for issuance to officers, directors, employees, sales
representatives and consultants of the Company pursuant to stock option grants
outside of the Company's 2000 Equity Incentive Plan (the "Stock Plan"), and
5,257,136 shares of its Common Stock for issuance to officers, directors,
employees,

                                       2
<PAGE>

sales representatives and consultants of the Company pursuant to the Stock Plan,
of which 3,687,395 shares are currently subject to outstanding options under the
Stock Plan, and 1,569,741 shares are available for future issuance. The Series C
Preferred shall have the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions set
forth in the Restated Certificate. Except as referenced on the Schedule of
Exceptions on Exhibit C hereto, there are no options, warrants, conversion
privileges or other rights presently outstanding to purchase or otherwise
acquire any authorized but unissued shares of the capital stock or other
securities of the Company, nor any agreements or understandings with respect
thereto. The Company is not a party or subject to any agreement or
understanding, and, to the Company's knowledge, there is no agreement or
understanding between any persons and/or entities, which affects or relates to
the voting or giving of consents with respect to any security or by a director
of the Company.

     3.5  Authorization. All corporate action on the part of the Company, its
officers, directors and shareholders necessary for the authorization, execution,
delivery and performance of this Agreement and each of the Related Agreements by
the Company, the authorization, sale, issuance and delivery of the Shares (and
the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Shares) and the performance of
the Company's obligations hereunder and thereunder has been taken or will be
taken prior to the Closing. This Agreement and each of the Related Agreements,
when executed and delivered by the Company, shall constitute the valid and
binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in
accordance with their respective terms, subject to laws of general application
relating to bankruptcy, insolvency and the relief of debtors and rules of law
governing specific performance, injunctive relief or other equitable remedies.

     3.6  Validity of Shares. The Shares, when issued, sold and delivered in
compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, will be duly and validly
issued and will be fully paid and nonassessable and free and clear of all liens
and encumbrances, and the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Shares
has been duly and validly reserved and, when issued and delivered in compliance
with the provisions of the Restated Certificate, will be duly and validly issued
and will be fully paid and nonassessable and free and clear of all liens and
encumbrances and restrictions on transfer other than as set forth in this
Agreement and the Related Agreements, provided, however, that the Shares (and
the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Shares) may be subject to
restrictions on transfer under state and/or federal securities laws. There are
no outstanding rights of first refusal or preemptive rights applicable to the
Shares.

     3.7  Title to Properties and Assets; Liens, etc. The Company has good and
marketable title to all its properties and assets, and is in compliance with the
lease of all material properties leased by it, in each case subject to no
mortgage, pledge, lien, lease, encumbrance or charge, other than the lien of
current taxes not yet due and payable. The Company is not in default under or in
breach of any provision of its leases, and the Company holds valid lease-hold
interests in the properties which it leases. The Company's material properties
and assets are in good condition and repair, ordinary wear and tear excepted, in
all material respects.

     3.8  Material Contracts and Commitments. Exhibit C sets forth a list of all
agreements, contracts, indebtedness, liabilities and other obligations to which
the Company is a party or by which it or its assets are bound that (a) involve
in excess of $50,000 aggregating similar agreements or obligations to the same
party; (b) involve to the Company's knowledge any of the officers, consultants,
directors, employees or shareholders of the Company or any

                                       3
<PAGE>

members of the immediate family of the foregoing; or (c) obligate the Company to
share, license or develop any product. Copies of such agreements and contracts
and documentation evidencing such liabilities and other obligations have been
made available by the Company to Purchaser. True and complete copies of all
items set forth on Exhibit C have been made available to Purchaser.

     3.9   Patents, Trademarks, etc. To the knowledge of the Company, the
Company has sufficient title and ownership of all patents, trademarks, service
marks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets, information, proprietary rights
and processes necessary for its business as now conducted, and as proposed to be
conducted, and, to the knowledge of the Company, without conflict with or
infringement of the rights of others. The Company has not received any
communications alleging that the Company has violated or, by conducting its
business as proposed, would violate, the patents, trademarks, service marks,
trade names, copyrights, trade secrets, information or proprietary or
intellectual property rights of any other person or entity. The Company is not
aware of any violation or infringement by a third party of any of the Company's
patents, licenses, trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, trade
secrets or other proprietary rights. The Company has disclosed trade secrets to
other persons solely as required for the conduct of its business and solely
under nondisclosure agreements that are enforceable by the Company. The Company
has at all times maintained reasonable procedures to protect and have enforced
all of its trade secrets.

     3.10  Compliance with Other Instruments. The Company is not in violation of
any term of its Restated Certificate or Bylaws, or in any material respect of
any term or provision of any mortgage, indenture, contract, agreement,
instrument, judgment or decree, and to its knowledge is not in violation of any
order, statute, rule or regulation applicable to the Company. The execution,
delivery and performance of and compliance with this Agreement and each of the
Related Agreements and the issuance of the Shares (and the Common Stock issuable
upon conversion of the Shares), have not resulted and will not result in any
violation of, or conflict with, or constitute a default under any of the
foregoing, or result in the creation of any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance
or charge upon any of the properties or assets of the Company; and there is no
such violation or default which materially and adversely affects the business,
financial condition, results of operations or prospects of the Company or any of
its properties or assets. All of the contracts and agreements set forth on
Exhibit C are in full force and effect and constitute legal, valid and binding
obligations of the Company. The Company and, to the best knowledge of the
Company, each other party thereto, has performed in all material respects all
obligations required to be performed by it under the contracts and agreements
set forth on Exhibit C, and no material violation or default exists in respect
thereof, nor any event that with notice or lapse of time, or both, would
constitute a default thereof; on the part of the Company or, to the best
knowledge of the Company, any other party thereto; none of the contracts and
agreements set forth on Exhibit C is currently being renegotiated; and the
validity, effectiveness and continuation of all contracts and agreements set
forth on Exhibit C will not be materially adversely affected by the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement or any of the Related Agreements.

     3.11  Litigation, etc. There are no actions, suits, proceedings or
investigations pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened against the
Company or its properties before any court or governmental agency, which, either
in any case or in the aggregate, might result in any

                                       4
<PAGE>

material adverse change in the business, prospects, financial condition,
affairs, operations or equity ownership of the Company or any of its properties
or assets, or in any material impairment of the right or ability of the Company
to carry on its business as now conducted or as proposed to be conducted, or in
any material liability on the part of the Company, and none which questions the
validity of this Agreement or any of the Related Agreements or any action taken
or to be taken in connection herewith or therewith. The Company is not a party
or subject to the order, writ, judgement, injunction, decree or other provisions
of any court or governmental agency or instrumentality. There is no action,
suit, proceeding or investigation by the Company currently pending or that the
Company intends to initiate.

     3.12  Employees. To the Company's knowledge, no employee of the Company is
or will be in violation of any judgment, decree or order of any court or
administrative agency or any term of any employment contract or any other
contract (including without limitation any covenant not to compete) or agreement
relating to the relationship of any such employee with the Company or any other
party because of the nature of the business conducted or to be conducted by the
Company or to the utilization by the employee of such employee's reasonable
efforts with respect to such business. The Company does not have any collective
bargaining agreements covering any of its employees. To the Company's knowledge,
the Company is not using any inventions of any of its employees, consultants or
officers made before their employment by the Company. To the Company's
knowledge, no employee, consultant or officer has taken, removed or made use of
any proprietary documentation, manuals, products, materials or any other
tangible items from the employee's previous employers relating to the Company's
business. To the best knowledge of the Company, no labor union has sought to
represent any of the employees of the Company. There is no strike or other labor
dispute involving the Company pending, or to the best knowledge of the Company,
threatened. To the best knowledge of the Company, no officer or key employee
intends to terminate his or her employment with it.

     3.13  Insurance. The Company has in full force and effect fire, casualty
and liability insurance policies with recognized insurers with such coverages as
are sufficient in amount to allow replacement of the tangible properties of the
Company that might be damaged or destroyed.

     3.14  Registration Rights. Except as contemplated by the Investor Rights
Agreement, the Company is not under any obligation to register any of its
presently outstanding securities or any of its securities that may hereafter be
issued.

     3.15  Governmental Consents, etc. No consent, approval, order or
authorization of or designation, declaration or filing with any state, federal
or local governmental authority on the part of the Company is required in
connection with the valid execution and delivery of this Agreement, or the
offer, sale or issuance of the Shares (and the Common Stock issuable upon
conversion of the Shares), or the consummation of any other transaction
contemplated hereby, except (a) filing of the Restated Certificate in the office
of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, (b) qualification (or taking
such action as may be necessary to secure an exemption from qualification, if
available) under the California Corporate Securities Law and other applicable
Blue Sky laws, of the offer and sale of the Shares (and the Common Stock
issuable upon conversion of the Shares), which filings and qualification, if
required, will be accomplished in a timely manner prior to or promptly upon
completion of the Closing, and (c) such filings as

                                       5
<PAGE>

may be determined by counsel to the Company to be necessary to secure an
exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the
"Securities Act"), which filing, if required, will be accomplished in a timely
manner prior to or promptly upon completion of the Closing.

     3.16  Offering. Based in part upon the accuracy of Purchaser's
representations in Section 4 hereof, the offer, sale and issuance of the Shares
to be issued in conformity with the terms of this Agreement (and the issuance of
the Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of the Shares) constitute
transactions exempt from the registration requirements of Section 5 of the
Securities Act.

     3.17  Disclosure. The Company has fully provided Purchaser with all the
information which Purchaser have requested for deciding whether to acquire the
Shares. No statement by the Company contained in this Agreement and the exhibits
attached hereto, or in any certificate furnished or to be furnished to Purchaser
pursuant hereto, when taken as a whole, contains or will contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omits or will omit to state a material fact
necessary in order to make the statements contained herein or therein not
misleading in light of the circumstances under which they were made.

     3.18  Brokers or Finders. The Company has not incurred, and will not incur,
directly or indirectly, any liability for brokerage or finders' fees or agents'
commissions or any similar charges in connection with this Agreement or any
transaction contemplated hereby.

     3.19  Permits. The Company has all franchises, permits, licenses and any
similar authority necessary for the conduct of its business as now being
conducted, the lack of which could materially and adversely affect the business,
properties, prospects, financial condition or results of operations of the
Company, and the Company believes it can obtain, without undue burden or
expense, any similar authority for the conduct of its business as planned to be
conducted. The Company is not in default in any material respect under any of
such franchises, permits, licenses or other similar authority.

     3.20  No Conflict of Interest. The Company is not indebted, directly or
indirectly, to any of its officers or directors or to their respective spouses
or children, in any amount whatsoever other than in connection with expenses or
advances of expenses incurred in the ordinary course of business or relocation
expenses of employees. To the best of the Company's knowledge, none of the
Company's officers or directors, or any members of their immediate families,
are, directly or indirectly, indebted to the Company (other than in connection
with purchases of the Company's stock) or have any direct or indirect ownership
interest in any firm or corporation with which the Company is affiliated or with
which the Company has a business relationship, or any firm or corporation which
competes with the Company except that officers, directors and/or shareholders of
the Company may own stock in (but not exceeding two percent of the outstanding
capital stock of) any publicly traded company that may compete with the Company.
To the best of the Company's knowledge, none of the Company's officers or
directors or any members of the immediate families are, directly or indirectly,
interested in any material contract with the Company. The Company is not a
guarantor or indemnitor of any indebtedness of any other person, firm or
corporation.

                                       6
<PAGE>

     3.21  Actions. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has (i)
declared or paid any dividends, or authorized or made any distribution upon or
with respect to any class or series of its capital stock, (ii) incurred any
indebtedness for money borrowed or incurred any other liabilities individually
in excess of $25,000 or in excess of $50,000 in the aggregate, (iii) made any
loans or advances to any person, other than ordinary advances for travel
expenses, or (iv) sold, exchanged or otherwise disposed of any of its assets or
rights, other than the sale of its inventory in the ordinary course of business.

     3.22  Voting Rights. To the Company's knowledge, no shareholders of the
Company have entered into any agreements with respect to the voting of capital
shares of the Company.

     3.23  Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreements. Each employee,
consultant and officer of the Company has executed an agreement with the Company
regarding confidentiality and proprietary information substantially in the form
or forms delivered to the counsel for Purchaser. The Company, after reasonable
investigation, is not aware that any of its employees or consultants is in
violation thereof, and the Company will use its best efforts to prevent any such
violation. All consultants to or vendors of the Company with access to
confidential information of the Company are parties to a written agreement
substantially in the form or forms provided to counsel for Purchaser under
which, among other things, each such consultant or vendor is obligated to
maintain the confidentiality of confidential information of the Company. The
Company, after reasonable investigation, is not aware that any of its
consultants or vendors are in violation thereof, and the Company will use its
best efforts to prevent any such violation.

     3.24  Employee Benefit Plans. The Company does not have any Employee
Benefit Plan as defined in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.

     3.25  Tax Returns and Payments. The Company has filed all tax returns and
reports as required by law. These returns and reports are true and correct in
all material respects. The Company has paid all taxes and other assessments due.

     3.26  Corporate Documents. The Restated Certificate and Bylaws of the
Company are in the form provided to counsel for Purchaser. The copy of the
minute books of the Company provided to Purchaser's counsel contains minutes of
all meetings for directors and shareholders and all actions by written consent
without a meeting by the directors and shareholders since the date of
incorporation and reflects all actions by the directors (and any committee of
directors) and shareholders with respect to all transactions referred to in such
minutes accurately in all material respects.

     3.27  Environmental Matters. The business, assets and properties of the
Company are and have been operated and maintained in material compliance with
all applicable federal, state, city, county and local environmental protection
laws and regulations (collectively, the "Environmental Laws"). To the best
knowledge of the Company, no event has occurred which, with or without the
passage of time or the giving of notice, or both, would constitute noncompliance
by the Company with, or a violation by the Company of, the Environmental Laws.
To the best knowledge of the Company, the Company has not caused or permitted to
exist, as a result of an intentional or unintentional act or omission, a
disposal, discharge or

                                       7
<PAGE>

release of solid wastes, pollutants or hazardous substances, on or from any site
which currently is or formerly was owned, leased, occupied or used by it, except
where such disposal, discharge or release was in material compliance with the
Environmental Laws.

     3.28  Investment Company Act.  The Company is not an "investment company"
nor is the Company directly or indirectly controlled by or acting on behalf of
any person which is an "Investment Company" within the meaning of the Investment
Company Act of 1940, as amended.

     3.29  Tax Elections.  The Company has not elected pursuant to the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), to be treated as an "S"
corporation or a collapsible corporation pursuant to Section 341(f) or Section
1362(a) of the Code, nor has it made any other elections pursuant to the Code
(other than elections which relate solely to matters of accounting, depreciation
or amortization) which would have a material affect on the Company, its
financial condition, its business as presently conducted or presently proposed
to be conducted or any of its properties or material assets.

     3.30  Financial Statements. The Company has made available to Purchaser its
(i) unaudited financial statements (including balance sheet and profit and loss
statement) as of August 31, 2000, and (ii) audited financial statements as of
December 31, 1999 (collectively, the "Financial Statements"). The Financial
Statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods indicated,
except that such unaudited Financial Statements may not contain all footnotes
required by generally accepted accounting principles. The Financial Statements
fairly present the financial condition and operating results of the Company as
of the dates, and for the periods, indicated therein, subject to normal yearend
audit adjustments. Except as set forth in the Financial Statements, the Company
has no material liabilities, contingent or otherwise, other than (i) liabilities
incurred in the ordinary course of business subsequent to August 31, 2000, and
(ii) obligations under contracts and commitments incurred in the ordinary course
of business and not required under generally accepted accounting principles to
be reflected in the Financial Statements, which, in both cases, individually or
in the aggregate are not material to the financial condition or operating
results of the Company.

     3.31  Financial Condition. The Company was incorporated on May 11, 1998.
Since that time, the Company has only engaged in startup and development
activities and has generated no revenue. Since inception, the Company has been
operated only in the ordinary course of business, and there has not been any
event or condition of any character that has adversely affected the Company's
business in a material manner, or any adverse change in the condition, assets or
liabilities of the Company except current liabilities incurred in the ordinary
course of business, none of which materially and adversely affect the business,
properties or prospects of the Company.

     3.32  Qualified Small Business Stock. The Shares will be issued directly
from the Company to Purchaser. The Company has not, during the period beginning
on the date one year before the first issuance of Series C Preferred to certain
purchasers on December 15, 2000 (the "Issuance"), made one or more purchases of
its capital stock with an aggregate value (at the time of the respective
purchases) exceeding five percent (5%) of the aggregate value of all its capital

                                       8
<PAGE>

stock at the beginning of such one-year period. The "aggregate gross assets" as
defined in Section 1202(d)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the "IRC"), of the Company at all times before the Issuance did not exceed
Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000), and the "aggregate gross assets"
immediately after the Issuance will not exceed Fifty Million Dollars
($50,000,000). At the time of the Closing, the Company intends to engage in the
active conduct of a "qualified trade or business" as defined in Section
1202(e)(3) of the IRC. At the time of the Closing, the Company is an "eligible
corporation" as defined in Section 1202(e)(4) of the IRC. Not more than ten
percent (10%) of the Company's "aggregate gross assets" by value immediately
after the Issuance will consist of real estate.

     3.33  U.S. Real Property Holding Corporation. The Company is not now, nor
will it be immediately after the Closing, a "United States Real Property Holding
Corporation" as defined in Section 897(c)(2) of the Code and Section 1.897-2(b)
of the Regulations promulgated thereunder ("USRPHC"). The Company covenants that
it will operate in a manner such that it will not become a USRPHC.

                                   SECTION 4

            Representations, Warranties and Covenants of Purchaser

     Purchaser hereby represents, warrants and covenants to the Company with
respect to the purchase of the Shares as follows:

     4.1  Accredited Investor. Purchaser represents that it is an accredited
investor within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act.

     4.2  Investment. Purchaser is acquiring the Shares for investment for its
own account, not as a nominee or agent, and not with a view to, or for resale in
connection with, any distribution thereof, and Purchaser has no present
intention of selling, granting any participation in, or otherwise distributing
the same. Purchaser understands that the Shares to be purchased have not been
registered under the Securities Act by reason of a specific exemption from the
registration provisions of the Securities Act which depends upon, among other
things, the bona fide nature of the investment intent and the accuracy of such
Purchaser's representations as expressed herein.

     4.3  Restricted Securities; Rule 144. Purchaser understands that the Shares
and the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Shares, will be
"restricted securities" under the federal securities laws inasmuch as they are
being acquired from the Company in a transaction not involving a public offering
and that under such laws and applicable regulations the Shares may be resold
without registration under the Securities Act only in certain limited
circumstances. Purchaser acknowledges that the Shares must be held indefinitely
unless subsequently registered under the Securities Act or an exemption from
such registration is available. Purchaser is aware of the provisions of Rule 144
promulgated under the Securities Act which permit limited resale of shares
purchased in a private placement subject to the satisfaction of certain
conditions, including, among other things, the existence of a public market for
the shares, the availability of certain current public information about the
Company, the resale occurring not less than one year after a party has purchased
and paid for the security to be sold,

                                       9
<PAGE>

the sale being effected through a "broker's transaction" or in transactions
directly with a "market maker" (as provided by Rule 144(f)) and the number of
shares being sold during any three-month period not exceeding specified
limitations.

     4.4  No Public Market. Purchaser understands that no public market now
exists for any of the securities issued by the Company and that there is no
assurance that a public market will ever exist for the Shares.

     4.5  Access to Data. Purchaser has had an opportunity to discuss the
Company's business, management and financial affairs with the Company's
management and the opportunity to review the Company's facilities and has
received all information requested from the Company regarding the investment in
the Company.

     4.6  Authorization. Purchaser represents that it has the full right, power
and authority to enter into and perform Purchaser's obligations under this
Agreement and the Investor Rights Agreement, and this Agreement and the Investor
Rights Agreement when executed and delivered by Purchaser will constitute valid
and binding obligations of Purchaser, enforceable in accordance with their
respective terms, subject to the laws of general application relating to
bankruptcy, insolvency and the relief of debtors, rules of law governing
specific performance, injunctive relief or other equitable remedies.

     4.7  Government Consents. No consent, approval or authorization of or
designation, declaration or filing with any state, federal or foreign
governmental authority on the part of Purchaser is required in connection with
the valid execution and delivery of this Agreement by Purchaser, and the
consummation by Purchaser of the transactions contemplated hereby.

     4.8  Further Limitations on Disposition. Without in any way limiting the
representations set forth above, Purchaser further agrees not to make any
disposition of all or any portion of the Shares unless and until:

          (a)  There is then in effect a Registration Statement under the
Securities Act covering such proposed disposition and such disposition is made
in accordance with such Registration Statement; or

          (b)  Purchaser shall have notified the Company of the proposed
disposition, and if reasonably requested by the Company, such Purchaser shall
have furnished the Company with an opinion of counsel, reasonably satisfactory
to the Company, that such disposition will not require registration under the
Securities Act.

     4.9  Legends. It is understood that each certificate representing the
Shares, and the shares of the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the
Shares, and any securities issued in respect thereof or exchange therefor shall
bear legends in the following forms (in addition to any legend required under
applicable state securities laws):

          (a)  "THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE BEEN ACQUIRED
FOR INVESTMENT AND NOT WITH A VIEW TO, OR IN CONNECTION WITH, THE SALE OR
DISTRIBUTION THEREOF. NO SUCH SALE OR DISPOSITION MAY BE EFFECTED WITHOUT AN
EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION

                                       10
<PAGE>

STATEMENT RELATED THERETO OR, IF REQUESTED BY THE COMPANY, AN OPINION OF COUNSEL
SATISFACTORY TO THE CORPORATION THAT SUCH REGISTRATION IS NOT REQUIRED UNDER THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "ACT").

          (b)  Any legend required to be placed thereon by the California
Commissioner of Corporations or any other applicable state securities laws.

                                   SECTION 5

                      Conditions to Closing of Purchaser

     Purchaser's obligation to purchase the Shares at the Closing is, at the
option of Purchaser, subject to the fulfillment on or prior to the Closing Date
of the following conditions:

     5.1  Representations and Warranties Correct. The representations and
warranties made by the Company in Section 3 hereof shall be true and correct in
all material respects when made, and shall be true and correct on the Closing
Date in all material respects with the same force and effect as if they had been
made on and as of said date.

     5.2  Covenants. All covenants, agreements and conditions contained in this
Agreement to be performed by the Company on or prior to the Closing Date shall
have been performed or complied with in all material respects.

     5.3  Compliance Certificate. The Company shall have delivered to Purchaser
a certificate executed by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, dated as
of the Closing Date and certifying to the fulfillment of the conditions
specified in Sections 5.1 and 5.2 of this Agreement.

     5.4  Blue Sky. The Company shall have obtained all necessary Blue Sky law
permits and qualifications, or secured an exemption therefrom, required by any
state for the offer and sale of the Shares, and the Common Stock issuable upon
conversion of the Shares.

     5.5  Related Agreements. The Company and Purchaser shall have executed and
delivered the Investor Rights Agreement, the Refusal Agreement and the Voting
Agreement, each in the form attached hereto as Exhibits D, E and F,
respectively.

     5.6  Restated Certificate of Incorporation. The Restated Certificate shall
have been filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.

     5.7  The Merger. All conditions precedent to the obligations of each of the
Company, Merger Sub and PPGx to consummate the Merger, except for the
satisfaction of Sections 6.13 and 7.8 of the Reorganization Agreement, shall
have been satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms of the Reorganization
Agreement.

     5.8  Opinion of Company Counsel. Purchaser shall have received from Cooley
Godward, counsel for the Company, an opinion, dated as of the closing, in the
form attached hereto as Exhibit G.

                                       11
<PAGE>

                                   SECTION 6

                     Conditions to Closing of the Company

     The Company's obligation to sell and issue the Shares at the Closing is, at
the option of the Company, subject to the fulfillment of the following
conditions:

     6.1  Representations. The representations made by Purchaser in Section 4
hereof shall be true and correct in all material respects when made, and shall
be true and correct on the Closing Date in all material respects with the same
force and effect as if they had been made on and as of said date.

     6.2  Blue Sky. The Company shall have obtained all necessary Blue Sky law
permits and qualifications, or secured an exemption therefrom, required by any
state for the offer and sale of the Shares and the Common Stock issuable upon
conversion of the Shares.

     6.3  Related Agreements.  Purchaser shall have executed and delivered to
the Company the Investor Rights Agreement, the Refusal Agreement and the Voting
Agreement, each in the forms attached hereto as Exhibits D, E and F,
respectively.

     6.4  Restated Certificate of Incorporation.  The Restated Certificate shall
have been filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.

     6.5  The Merger. All conditions precedent to the obligations of each of the
Company, Merger Sub and PPGx to consummate the Merger, except for the
satisfaction of Sections 6.13 and 7.8 of the Reorganization Agreement, shall
have been satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms of the Reorganization
Agreement.

                                   SECTION 7

                     Affirmative Covenants of the Company

     The Company hereby covenants and agrees as follows:

     7.1  The Board of Directors. The authorized size of the Board of Directors
of the Company is eight (8) members, and the Board shall consist of Brian
Atwood, Walter Burlock, James Clark, Seth Harrison, Hugh Rienhoff, Jr., James
Watson, Gregory Went and, if elected by the holders of the Series C Preferred,
such Series C Preferred director.

     7.2  Proprietary Information Agreements.  All employees of and consultants
to the Company having access to the Company's proprietary and confidential
information shall execute proprietary information agreements with the Company
substantially in the form of Exhibit H hereto.

     7.3  Option Vesting. All options or warrants hereafter granted by the
Company to its employees, officer, directors, consultants or advisors
("Restricted Parties"), all options previously granted by the Company's Board of
Directors but not yet evidenced by an option grant, and all restricted stock
purchase agreements hereafter entered into by the Company with

                                       12
<PAGE>

Restricted Parties, will be subject to a vesting schedule that provides for
twenty five percent (25%) vesting after the first twelve (12) months of
employment and monthly vesting as to the remaining seventy-five (75%) of the
shares over the following thirty-six (36) months after the first anniversary of
the employment commencement date, or such other vesting schedule as is
unanimously approved by the Company's Board of Directors.

     7.4  Insurance. The Company has Directors and Officer's insurance in the
amount of three million dollars ($3,000,000).

     7.5  Termination of Covenants. The covenants set forth in Section 7.1
through Section 7.4 shall terminate and be of no further force and effect upon
the closing of a firm underwritten public offering pursuant to an effective
registration statement under the Securities Act, covering any capital stock of
the Company.

     7.6  U.S. Real Property Holding Corporation.  The Company agrees to make
determinations as to its status as a USRPHC, and will file statements concerning
those determinations with the Internal Revenue Service, in the manner and at the
times required under Reg. 1.897-2(h), or any supplementary or successor
provision thereto; provided that with respect to filings triggered by the
dispositions of shares by a Purchaser, such Purchaser shall promptly provided
the Company with notice of such disposition to allow the Company to make a
timely filing.  Within 30 days of a request from a Purchaser, the Company will
inform the requesting party, in the manner set forth in Reg. 1.897-2(h) or any
supplementary or successor provision thereto, whether that party's interest in
the Company constitutes a United States real property interest (within the
meaning of Section 897(c)(1) of the Code) and whether the Company has provided
to the Internal Revenue Service all required notices as to its USRPHC status.

                                   SECTION 8

                                 Miscellaneous

     8.1  Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed in all respects by the
laws of the State of Delaware as such laws are applied to agreements between
Delaware residents entered into and performed entirely within Delaware.

     8.2  Survival. The representations, warranties, covenants and agreements
made herein shall survive any investigation made by any Purchaser and the
closing of the transactions contemplated hereby.

     8.3  Successors and Assigns. Except as otherwise provided herein, the
provisions hereof shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, the
successors, assigns, heirs, executors and administrators of the parties hereto,
provided, however, that the rights of Purchaser to purchase the Shares shall not
be assignable without the consent of the Company.

     8.4  Entire Agreement; Amendment. This Agreement and the other documents
delivered pursuant hereto constitute the full and entire understanding and
agreement between the parties with regard to the subjects hereof and thereof.
This Agreement or any term hereof may be amended, waived, discharged or
terminated solely by a written instrument signed by the

                                       13
<PAGE>

Company and the holders of a majority of the Common Stock issued or issuable
upon conversion Shares

     8.5  Waiver of Conflicts. Each party to this Agreement acknowledges that
Cooley Godward llp ("Cooley Godward"), outside general counsel to the Company,
has in the past performed and is or may now or in the future represent one or
more of Purchaser or their affiliates in matters unrelated to the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement (the "Financing"), including representation of
such Purchaser or their affiliates in matters of a similar nature to the
Financing. The applicable rules of professional conduct require that Cooley
Godward inform the parties hereunder of this representation and obtain their
consent. Cooley has served as outside general counsel to the Company and has
negotiated the terms of the Financing solely on behalf of the Company. It is the
belief of Cooley Godward that these terms and conditions represent an arm's
length transaction between the Company and Purchaser. Purchaser have been
represented by independent legal counsel regarding the terms of the Financing.
The Company and each Purchaser hereby (a) acknowledge that they have had an
opportunity to ask for and have obtained information relevant to such
representation, including disclosure of the reasonably foreseeable adverse
consequences of such representation; (b) acknowledge that with respect to the
Financing, Cooley Godward has represented solely the Company, and not any
Purchaser or any stockholder, director or employee of the Company or any
Purchaser; and (c) gives its informed consent to Cooley Godward's representation
of the Company in the Financing.

     8.6  Notices, etc. All notices and other communications required or
permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed by registered or
certified mail, postage prepaid, or otherwise delivered by hand or by messenger,
addressed (a) if to Purchaser, at the address set forth on the signature page
hereto or at such other address as shall have furnished to the Company upon not
less than 10 days notice in writing, or (b) if to the Company, at the address of
its principal office and addressed to the attention of the President and with a
copy to Cooley Godward llp, 3000 El Camino Real, 5 Palo Alto Square, Palo Alto,
CA 94306, Attention: Robert L. Jones at such other address as the Company shall
have furnished to Purchaser upon not less than 10 days notice in writing.

     8.7  Delays or Omissions. No delay or omission to exercise any right, power
or remedy accruing to any holder of any Shares, upon any breach or default of
the Company under this Agreement, shall impair any such right, power or remedy
of such holder nor shall it be construed to be a waiver of any such breach or
default, or an acquiescence therein, or of or in any similar breach or default
thereafter occurring; nor shall any waiver of any single breach or default be
deemed a waiver of any other breach or default theretofore or thereafter
occurring. Any waiver, permit, consent or approval of any kind or character on
the part of any holder of any breach or default under this Agreement, or any
waiver on the part of any holder of any provisions or conditions of this
Agreement, must be in writing and shall be effective only to the extent
specifically set forth in such writing. All remedies, either under this
Agreement or by law or otherwise afforded to any holder, shall be cumulative and
not alternative.

     8.8  California Corporate Securities Law. THE SALE OF THE SECURITIES WHICH
ARE THE SUBJECT OF THIS AGREEMENT HAS NOT BEEN QUALIFIED WITH THE COMMISSIONER
OF CORPORATIONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA AND THE

                                       14
<PAGE>

ISSUANCE OF SUCH SECURITIES OR THE PAYMENT OR RECEIPT OF ANY PART OF THE
CONSIDERATION THEREFOR PRIOR TO SUCH QUALIFICATION IS UNLAWFUL UNLESS THE SALE
OF SECURITIES IS EXEMPT FROM THE QUALIFICATION BY SECTION 25100, 25102 or 25105
OF THE CALIFORNIA CORPORATIONS CODE. THE RIGHTS OF ALL PARTIES TO THIS AGREEMENT
ARE EXPRESSLY CONDITIONED UPON SUCH QUALIFICATION BEING OBTAINED, UNLESS THE
SALE IS SO EXEMPT.

     8.9  Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall be enforceable against the parties actually
executing such counterparts, and all of which together shall constitute one
instrument

     8.10 Severability. In the event that any provision of this Agreement
becomes or is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal,
unenforceable or void, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect
without said provision.

                           [Signature pages follow]

                                       15
<PAGE>

In Witness Whereof, the undersigned has executed this Stock Purchase Agreement
as of the date set forth above.

The "Company"                 DNA Sciences, Inc.
                              a Delaware corporation

                              By: /s/Hugh Y. Rienhoff, Jr.
                                  --------------------------
                              Name:  Hugh Y. Rienhoff, Jr.
                              Title: Chairman and CEO

                                       16
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.155
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>0004.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SECOND AMENDMENT TO RIGHTS AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.155

               Second Amendment to Registration Rights Agreement
               -------------------------------------------------

     This Second Amendment to Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of
December 5, 2000, among Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc., a North
Carolina corporation (the "Company"), and Fredric N. Eshelman, Ernest Mario, and
John A. McNeill, Jr. (collectively, the "Holders"), amends that certain
Registration Rights Agreement (the "Agreement") dated January 24, 1996, among
the Company, the Holders and others, as amended.  Capitalized terms herein shall
have meaning ascribed to them in the Agreement unless otherwise expressly
indicated herein.

     WHEREAS, the Holders hold a majority of the Registrable Stock entitled to
Registration under the terms of the Agreement; and

     WHEREAS, the Agreement expires on December 31, 2000, and the Holders and
the Company desire to extend the term of the Agreement for an additional one
year.

     NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the covenants herein and other
good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, it is
agreed by the parties that Section 13 of the Agreement is amended by changing
the date stated therein from December 31, 2000 to December 31, 2001.

     The Agreement, as amended herein, shall continue in full force and effect.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Second Amendment to be
executed as the date first hereinabove stated.


PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC.


By:   /s/ Fred B. Davenport, Jr.
    ----------------------------
Name: Fred B. Davenport, Jr.
Title:  Vice President

 /s/ Fredric N. Eshelman
- ------------------------
Fredric N. Eshelman


 /s/ Ernest Mario
- -----------------
Ernest Mario


/s/ John A. McNeill, Jr.
- ------------------------
John A. McNeill, Jr.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.156
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>0005.txt
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDMENT NO.3 TO CREDIT & SECURITY AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.156

               AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO CREDIT AND SECURITY AGREEMENT
               ------------------------------------------------

     THIS AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO CREDIT AND SECURITY AGREEMENT (this "Agreement")
made as of the 17th day of October, 2000, by and among APPLIED BIOSCIENCE
INTERNATIONAL INC., a Delaware corporation, its successors and assigns (the
"Lender"), ENVIRON HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware corporation ("EHI"), ENVIRON
INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION (formerly APBI Environmental Sciences Group, Inc.), a
Virginia corporation ("EIC" together with EHI the "Original Borrowers"), and
ENVIRON FACILITY SERVICES CORPORATION, a Virginia corporation (the "New
Borrower"), jointly and severally (the Original Borrowers and the New Borrower,
each a "Borrower", and collectively, the "Borrowers").

                                   RECITALS
                                   --------

     A.  The Original Borrowers are parties to a certain Credit and Security
Agreement, along with the Lender dated February 2, 1999 (as thereafter amended,
modified, restated, substituted, extended and renewed from time to time, the
"Credit Agreement"), pursuant to which the Lender agreed to make available
certain credit facilities consisting of (i) a revolving credit facility (the
"Revolving Credit Facility") to provide working capital to the Original
Borrowers, (ii) a term loan (the "Term Loan") in the amount of Seven Million
Dollars ($7,000,000) to be used to pay a portion of the Purchase Price (as
defined in the Credit Agreement), (iii) letters of credit ("Letters of Credit")
to be used for general corporate purposes by the Original Borrowers, and (iv) an
acquisition loan in the amount of Eighteen Million Dollars ($18,000,000), also
to pay a portion of the Purchase Price.  As set forth in that certain Amendment
No. 2 and Restatement of Credit and Security Agreement dated November 24, 1999
by and among Lender and the
<PAGE>

Original Borrowers, the Term Loan has been satisfied and the Lender has no
obligation to make any loans under the Revolving Credit Facility or to issue any
Letters of Credit to or for the benefit of the Original Borrowers under the
Credit Agreement.

     B.  Pursuant to a plan of corporate restructuring approved by EIC's Board
of Directors, EIC has created a separate legal entity for its Facilities Group
in the form of the New Borrower and has transferred all of its assets related to
the Facilities Group to the New Borrower pursuant to that certain Asset Purchase
Agreement dated January 1, 2000 by and between EIC and the New Borrower (the
"Facilities Group Spin Off") and the Borrowers have requested that the Lender
consent to the Facilities Group Spin Off and the Lender has consented on the
condition, among others, that the parties hereto execute this Agreement.

     C.  The parties hereto desire to add the New Borrower as a party to the
Credit Agreement and to make certain other amendments to the Credit Agreement,
all as more fully set forth in this Agreement.

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and for other good and
valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the Borrowers and the Lender do hereby agree as follows:

     1.  Recitals. The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that the above
         --------
Recitals are true and correct in all material respects and that the same are
incorporated herein and made a part hereof by reference.

     2.  Defined Terms. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined
         -------------
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Credit Agreement.

     3.  Grant of Security Interest. The New Borrower hereby assigns, pledges
         --------------------------
and grants to the Lender, and agrees that the Lender shall have a perfected and
continuing security interest

                                       2
<PAGE>

in, and lien on, all of the New Borrower's Collateral. The New Borrower
individually represents and warrants to the Lender that its principal place of
business and the addresses where the Collateral is kept is as set forth on
Schedule 3.23 attached hereto.
- -------------

     4.  Assumption of Obligations. The New Borrower promises and agrees to
         -------------------------
perform each and all of the covenants, agreements and obligations in the Credit
Documents to be performed by the Original Borrowers, at the times, in the manner
and in all respects as provided therein, and to be bound by each and all of the
terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement as though the Credit Agreement had
originally been jointly and severally made by the Original Borrowers and the New
Borrower. All of the Borrowers shall remain liable for the performance of each
and all of the covenants, agreements and obligations in the Credit Documents to
be performed by the Borrowers. All references in the Credit Agreement and in any
of the Credit Documents to the "Borrower", the "Borrowers" or the "Obligors"
shall hereafter be deemed to include the New Borrower.

     5.  Consent to Facilities Group Spin Off. The Lender hereby waives any
         ------------------------------------
default or Event of Default occurring under Sections 5.07, 5.10 or 5.12 of the
Credit Agreement occurring solely as the result of the Facilities Group Spin
Off.  The parties acknowledge and agree that the Collateral sold to the New
Borrower pursuant to the Facilities Group Spin Off is and remains subject to the
security interests in the Collateral previously granted to the Lender under the
Credit Agreement.

     6.  Representations and Warranties. The New Borrower hereby issues, makes,
         ------------------------------
ratifies and confirms the representations, warranties and covenants contained in
the Credit Documents as of the date hereof, and further represents, warrants and
covenants to the Lender as follows:

                                       3
<PAGE>

          (a)  Good Standing. The New Borrower (a) is a corporation duly
               -------------
organized, existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of
its creation, (b) has the power to own its property and to carry on its business
as now being conducted, and (c) is duly qualified to do business and is in good
standing in each jurisdiction in which the character of the properties owned by
it therein or in which the transaction of its business makes such qualification
necessary.

          (b)  Power and Authority. The New Borrower has full power and
               -------------------
authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and each of the other Credit
Documents executed and delivered by it, to make the borrowing hereunder, and to
incur the Obligations, all of which have been duly authorized by all proper and
necessary corporate or company action. No consent or approval of stockholders or
of any public authority is required as a condition to the validity or
enforceability of this Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents executed
and delivered by the New Borrower.

          (c)  Binding Agreements. This Agreement and each of the other Credit
               ------------------
Documents executed and delivered by the New Borrower have been properly executed
by the New Borrower, constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the New
Borrower, and are fully enforceable against the New Borrower in accordance with
their respective terms.

          (d)  Litigation. There are no proceedings pending or, so far as the
               ----------
New Borrower knows, threatened before any court or administrative agency which
will materially adversely affect the financial condition or operations of the
New Borrower, or the authority of any Borrower to enter into this Agreement or
any of the other Credit Documents executed and delivered by the New Borrower.

                                       4
<PAGE>

          (e)  No Conflicting Agreements. There is (a) no charter, by-law, or
               -------------------------
preference stock provision of the New Borrower and no provision of any existing
mortgage, indenture, contract or agreement binding on the New Borrower or
affecting its property, and (b) to the knowledge of the New Borrower, no
provision of law or order of court binding upon the New Borrower, which would
conflict with or in any way prevent the execution, delivery, or performance of
the terms of this Agreement or of any of the other Credit Documents executed and
delivered by the New Borrower or which would be violated as a result of such
execution, delivery or performance.

          (f)  Wholly Owned Subsidiary.  New Borrower is a wholly owned
               -----------------------
subsidiary of EHI.

     7.   Solvency. The Borrowers represent that the fair saleable value of the
          --------
Borrowers' assets taken as a whole (including goodwill minus disposition costs)
exceeds the fair value of their liabilities; that no Borrowers are left with
unreasonably small capital after the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement; and the Borrowers are able to pay their debts (including trade debts)
as they mature.

     8.   Revised Schedules. From and after the effective date hereof, Schedules
          -----------------
3.05, 3.09, 3.10, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13, 3.14, 3.16, 3.17, 3.18, 3.19, 3.20, 3.21,
3.22, 3.23, 3.24, 3.25, 3.25A, 3.26, 3.35, 3.39 and 3.43 of the Credit Agreement
are being replaced in their entirety with the Schedules of corresponding number
attached hereto.

     9.   Conditions Precedent. This Agreement shall become effective on the
          --------------------
date the Lender receives the following documents, each of which shall be
satisfactory in form and substance to the Lender:

                                       5
<PAGE>

          (a)  The Amended and Restated Promissory Note (the "Restated Seller
Note") issued and delivered by the Borrowers in the form of Exhibit A attached
                                                            ---------
hereto and incorporated herein by reference, payable to the order of the Lender
in the original principal amount of $18,000,000.

          (b)  All documents and instruments (including, without limitation,
UCC-1 and UCC-3 Statements) required to be filed, registered or recorded in
order to create in favor of the Lender a perfected first lien in the New
Borrower's Collateral (subject only to Permitted Liens) in form and in
sufficient number for filing, registration, and recording in each office in each
jurisdiction in which such filings, registrations and recordations are required,
together with such evidence as the Lender may deem satisfactory that all
necessary filing fees and all recording and other similar fees and all taxes and
other expenses related to such filings, registrations and recordings will be or
have been paid in full.

          (c)  The Lender shall have received a Certificate dated as of the date
hereof by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the New Borrower covering:

               (i)   true and complete copies of the New Borrower's corporate
charter and by-laws and all amendments thereto;

               (ii)  true and complete copies of the resolutions of the New
Borrower's Board of Directors authorizing (i) the execution, delivery and
performance of the Credit Documents, (ii) the borrowing by the New Borrower
under the Credit Agreement, and (iii) the granting of the Liens contemplated by
this Agreement and any of the Credit Documents to which the New Borrower is a
party; and

                                       6
<PAGE>

               (iii)  the incumbency, authority and signatures of the officers
of the New Borrower authorized to sign this Agreement and the other Credit
Documents to which the New Borrower is a party.

          (d)  Such other information, instruments, opinions, documents,
certificates and reports as the Lender may deem necessary.

          (e)  Pursuant to Section 4.12 of the Credit Agreement, Lender shall
have received payment of its attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the
preparation, review, negotiation and execution of this Agreement and of all
other instruments, certificates and documents related hereto or executed in
connection herewith.

     10.  Replacement Seller Note. The Borrowers shall execute and deliver to
          -----------------------
the Lender on the date hereof the Restated Seller Note in substitution for, and
not satisfaction of, the issued and outstanding Seller Note, and the Restated
Seller Note shall be the "Seller Note" for all purposes of the Credit Documents.
The Seller Note being substituted pursuant to this Agreement shall be marked
"Replaced" and returned to the Borrowers after the execution and delivery of the
Restated Seller Note to the Lender.

     11.  Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of
          ------------
duplicate originals or counterparts, each of which duplicate original or
counterpart shall be deemed to be an original and all taken together shall
constitute one and the same instrument.

     12.  Credit Documents; Governing Law; Etc. This Agreement is one of the
          ------------------------------------
Credit Documents defined in the Credit Agreement and shall be governed and
construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. The
headings and captions in this Agreement are for the convenience of the parties
only and are not a part of this Agreement.

                                       7
<PAGE>

     13.  Acknowledgments. The Borrowers hereby confirm to the Lender the
          ---------------
enforceability and validity of each of the Credit Documents. In addition, the
Borrowers hereby agree to the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the
terms and provisions, covenants or agreements contained in this Agreement shall
not in any manner release, impair, lessen, modify, waive or otherwise limit the
liability and obligations of the Borrowers under the terms of any of the Credit
Documents, except as otherwise specifically set forth in this Agreement. The
Borrowers issue, ratify and confirm the representations, warranties and
covenants contained in the Credit Documents.

     14.  Modifications. This Agreement may not be supplemented, changed,
          -------------
waived, discharged, terminated, modified or amended, except by written
instrument executed by the parties.

     15.  Full Force and Effect. Except as expressly set forth above, the
          ---------------------
provisions of the Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect and
are hereby ratified and confirmed. A default under this Agreement shall be a
default under the Credit Agreement.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have signed and sealed this Agreement
on the day and year first above written.


                                        LENDER:

WITNESS:                                APPLIED BIOSCIENCE INTERNATIONAL INC.


 /s/ Joanne H. Teague                    By:  /s/ Fred B. Davenport, Jr.  (SEAL)
- --------------------------                  ------------------------------
                                             Name:  Fred B, Davenport, Jr.
                                                  ------------------------     .
                                             Title: Vice President
                                                   -----------------------     .

                                       8
<PAGE>

                                      BORROWERS:

                                      ENVIRON HOLDINGS, INC.,
                                      a Delaware corporation


 /s/ Joanne H. Teague                 By:   /s/ Joseph Highland          (SEAL)
- --------------------------               --------------------------------
                                         Name:  Joseph Highland
                                              ---------------------------     .
                                         Title: Chairman, Chief Executive
                                                -------------------------
                                                Officer & Secretary
                                                -------------------------     .

                                      ENVIRON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION,
                                      a Virginia corporation


 /s/ Joanne H. Teague                 By:   /s/ Joseph Highland          (SEAL)
- --------------------------               --------------------------------
                                         Name:  Joseph Highland
                                              ---------------------------     .
                                         Title: Chairman, Chief Executive
                                                -------------------------
                                                Officer & Secretary
                                                -------------------------     .


                                      ENVIRON FACILITY SERVICES CORPORATION,
                                      a Virginia corporation


 /s/ Joanne H. Teague                 By:   /s/ Joseph Highland          (SEAL)
- --------------------------               --------------------------------
                                         Name:  Joseph Highland
                                              ---------------------------     .
                                         Title: Chairman, Chief Executive
                                                -------------------------
                                                Officer & Secretary
                                                -------------------------     .



                                       9
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.157
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>0006.txt
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED & RESTATED PROMISSORY NOTE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                               Exhibit 10.157

                    AMENDED AND RESTATED PROMISSORY NOTE

$18,000,000                                              October 17, 2000

     FOR VALUE RECEIVED, ENVIRON HOLDINGS, INC., a Delaware corporation, ENVIRON
INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION, formerly known as APBI Environmental Sciences Group,
Inc., a Virginia corporation, and ENVIRON FACILITY SERVICES CORPORATION, a
Virginia corporation (collectively referred to herein as "Maker"), jointly and
severally promise to pay to the order of APPLIED BIOSCIENCE INTERNATIONAL INC.,
a Delaware corporation (herein, together with any subsequent holder of this
Note, referred to as "Payee"), in lawful money of the United States of America,
the principal sum of Eighteen Million Dollars ($18,000,000), together with
interest in arrears on the unpaid principal balance at an annual rate equal to
eight percent (8%) (the "Rate"), in the manner and subject to the terms and
conditions set forth hereinbelow. Interest shall be calculated on the basis of
actual days elapsed over a 360-day year.

     This Note is the Restated Seller Note referred to in that certain Amendment
No. 3 to Credit and Security Agreement of even date herewith by and among Maker
and Payee, which amends that certain Credit and Security Agreement by and among
Environ Holdings, Inc., Environ International Corporation and Payee dated
February 2, 1999 (as thereafter amended, modified, restated, substituted,
extended and renewed at any time and from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"),
is one of the Credit Documents referred to in the Credit Agreement, and is
subject to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement, which are, by this
reference, incorporated herein and made a part hereof. However, neither this
reference to the Credit Agreement nor any provision thereof shall impair the
absolute and unconditional obligation of Maker to pay the principal and interest
on this Note as herein provided. Capitalized terms used in this Note without
definition shall have the  meanings set forth in the Credit Agreement.  This
Note amends and restates in its entirety that certain Promissory Note dated
February 2, 1999, from Environ Holdings, Inc. and Environ International
Corporation to Payee in the original principal amount of $18,000,000.00 (the
"Original Note").  It is expressly agreed that the indebtedness evidenced by the
Original Note has not been extinguished or discharged by this Note and is
included in the amount due to Payee from Maker.  Maker and Payee acknowledge and
agree that the outstanding principal balance on this Note as of the date hereof
is $18,000,000.00.

     This Note is subject to subordination as set forth in the Credit Agreement.

1.  PAYMENTS

    1.1  PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST

         (a) Interest only shall be payable on this Note until January 31, 2004,
when principal shall begin to be repaid in accordance with paragraph 1.1(b)
below. Prior to January 31, 2003, accrued interest on the outstanding principal
hereunder calculated at the Rate shall be due
<PAGE>

and payable in four (4) annual installments of One Million Four Hundred Forty
Thousand Dollars ($1,440,000), each payment due and payable on January 31 for
the years 2000-2003.

          (b)     Principal shall be repaid in eight (8) annual installments of
Two Million Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($2,250,000), each payment being
due and payable on January 31 in the years 2004-2011, together with accrued
interest on the outstanding principal hereunder calculated at the Rate. All
principal and accrued interest shall be paid in full on or before January 31,
2011 (the "Maturity Date"). Partial payments made by Maker to Payee shall be
applied in such order as Payee may determine in Payee's discretion.


     1.2  MANNER OF PAYMENT

     All payments of principal and interest on this Note shall be made by
certified or bank cashier's check to Payee at 3151 Seventeenth Street Extension,
Wilmington, NC 28412, or at such other place in the United States of America as
Payee shall designate to Maker in writing or by wire transfer of immediately
available funds to an account designated by Payee in writing. All payments shall
be made without set-off, counterclaim or deduction of any kind. If any payment
of principal or interest on this Note is due on a day which is not a Business
Day, such payment shall be due on the next succeeding Business Day, and such
extension of time shall be taken into account in calculating the amount of
interest payable under this Note. "Business Day" means any day other than a
Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in the State of North Carolina.

     1.3  PREPAYMENT

     This Note is subject to prepayment as set forth in the Credit Agreement.

2.   DEFAULTS

     2.1  EVENTS OF DEFAULT; REMEDIES

     Upon the failure of Maker to pay when due any payment of principal or
interest on this Note which failure continues for ten (10) days after the due
date thereof, or upon the occurrence of any other Event of Default, Payee may,
at its option, (i) by written notice to Maker, declare the entire unpaid
principal balance of this Note, together with all accrued interest thereon,
immediately due and payable regardless of any prior forbearance, (ii) exercise
any and all rights and remedies available to Payee under the Credit Documents,
and (iii) exercise any and all rights and remedies available to Payee under
applicable law, including, without limitation, the rights and remedies of a
secured party under the Uniform Commercial Code ("UCC") of the State of Virginia
or the UCC of any other jurisdiction whose law may govern the perfection of the
liens and security interests granted under the Credit Documents. Payee may
impose a late charge of five percent (5%) of the amount of any installment of
principal and/or interest not paid on or before the tenth (10/th/) day after
such installment is due. After the occurrence of an Event of Default or after
the maturity date hereof, the entire principal balance hereof, together with
accrued interest, shall bear interest at the rate of eleven percent (11%) per
annum. All rights and remedies of Payee for an Event of Default, whether granted
herein or otherwise, shall be

                                       2
<PAGE>

cumulative and may be exercised singly or concurrently and/or from time to time
in Payee's discretion. Maker shall pay all reasonable costs and expenses
incurred by or on behalf of Payee in connection with Payee's exercise of any or
all of its rights and remedies under this Note, including, without limitation,
reasonable attorneys' fees and costs of collection.


     2.2  NOTICE BY MAKER

     Maker shall notify Payee in writing within five (5) days after the
occurrence of an Event of Default of which Maker acquires knowledge.

3.  MISCELLANEOUS

    3.1 WAIVER

    No waiver by Payee of any right or remedy under this Note shall be
effective unless in a writing signed by Payee. Neither the failure nor any delay
in exercising any right, power or privilege under this Note will operate as a
waiver of such right, power or privilege and no single or cumulative exercise of
any such right, power or privilege by Payee will preclude any other or further
exercise of such right, power or privilege or the exercise of any other right,
power or privilege. To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, (a) no
claim or right of Payee arising out of this Note can be discharged by Payee, in
whole or in part, by a waiver or renunciation of the claim or right unless in a
writing, signed by Payee; (b) no waiver that may be given to Payee will be
applicable except in the specific instance for which it is given; and (c) no
notice to or demand on Maker will be deemed to be a waiver of any obligation of
Maker or of the right of Payee to take further action without notice or demand
as provided in this Note. Maker hereby waives presentment, demand, protest and
notice of dishonor and protest. Maker and all endorsers, sureties and guarantors
hereof hereby waive presentment for payment, demand, protest, notice of
nonpayment or dishonor, and any and all other notices and demands whatsoever,
and any and all defenses on the grounds of any extension of time for payment
which may be granted by Payee or any failure by Payee to assert any legal rights
available to Payee, and agree to remain bound until the entire indebtedness
evidenced by this Note is paid in full. Maker acknowledges the sufficiency and
receipt of the full consideration required of the Payee for this Note and that
this Note is the legal and binding obligation of each Maker enforceable in
accordance with its terms.

     3.2  NOTICES

     Any notice required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be given in
accordance with Section 7.08 of the Credit Agreement.

     3.3  SEVERABILITY

     If any provision in this Note is held invalid or unenforceable by any court
of competent jurisdiction, the other provisions of this Note will remain in full
force and effect. Any provision of this Note held invalid or unenforceable only
in part or degree will remain in full force and effect to the extent not held
invalid or unenforceable.

                                       3
<PAGE>

     3.4  GOVERNING LAW

     This Note will be governed by the laws of the State of Virginia without
regard to conflicts of laws principles and without regard to the location of any
Maker, any guarantor hereof, or of any properties or assets granted as security
for this Note.

     3.5  PARTIES IN INTEREST

     This Note shall bind each Maker and its successors and assigns and inure to
the benefit of Payee and its successors and assigns. No Maker may assign its
rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of Payee.

     3.6  SECTION HEADINGS; CONSTRUCTION

     The headings of Sections in this Note are provided for convenience only and
will not affect its construction or interpretation. All references to "Section"
or "Sections" refer to the corresponding Section or Sections of this Note unless
otherwise specified. All words used in this Note will be construed to be of such
gender or number as the circumstances require. Unless otherwise expressly
provided, the words "hereof" and "hereunder" and similar references refer to
this Note in its entirety and not to any specific section or subsection hereof.
This Note may not be amended, changed or modified in any respect except by a
written document which has been executed by Maker and Payee.

     3.7  TIME OF THE ESSENCE

     Time is of the essence with respect to all dates and time periods set forth
in this Note.

     3.8. JOINT AND SEVERAL LIABILITY

     The obligations and liabilities of Environ Holdings, Inc., Environ
International Corporation and Environ Facility Services Corporation  are the
joint and several obligations of each of them.

     3.9  MUTUAL WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL

     Maker and Payee waive all rights to trial by jury of any claims of any kind
arising under or relating in any way to this Note or to the other Credit
Documents. Maker and Payee acknowledge that this is a waiver of a legal right
and represent to each other that these waivers are made knowingly and
voluntarily after consultation with counsel of their choice. Maker and Payee
agree that all such claims shall be tried before a judge of a court having
jurisdiction without a jury.

                                       4
<PAGE>

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, and intending to be legally bound hereby, Maker
executes this Note under seal as of the date first written above.



WITNESS:                             ENVIRON HOLDINGS, INC.,
                                     a Delaware corporation

/s/ Margaret Breyer                  By: /s/ Joseph Highland
- ----------------------                   --------------------------------(SEAL)
                                         Name: Joseph Highland              .
                                               --------------------------
                                         Title: Chairman, Chief Executive
                                                Officer & Secretary
                                                --------------------------  .

                                     ENVIRON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION,
                                     a Virginia corporation

/s/ Margaret Breyer                  By: /s/ Joseph Highland
- ----------------------                   ---------------------------------(SEAL)
                                         Name:  Joseph Highland
                                                --------------------------  .
                                         Title: Chairman, Chief Executive
                                                Officer & Secretary
                                                --------------------------  .


                                     ENVIRON FACILITY SERVICES CORPORATION,
                                     a Virginia corporation

/s/ Margaret Breyer                  By: /s/ Joseph Highland
- ----------------------                   ---------------------------------(SEAL)
                                         Name:  Joseph Highland
                                                --------------------------  .
                                         Title: Chairman, Chief Executive
                                                Officer & Secretary
                                                --------------------------  .

                                       5
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.158
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>0007.txt
<DESCRIPTION>DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                  Exhibit 10.158


==============================================================================

                   Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc.

                          Deferred Compensation Plan

===============================================================================

                       Effective Date:  February 1, 2001

                                      -1-
<PAGE>

===============================================================================
                      Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc.

                             Deferred Compensation Plan
===============================================================================

I.   Name and Purpose

The name of this plan is the Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. Deferred
Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). Its purpose is to provide certain select
management or highly compensated employees on the payroll of either
Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. (the "Company") or a subsidiary of the
Company (the "Affiliates") with the opportunity to defer compensation earned as
an employee.

II.  Effective Date

The Plan shall be effective as of February 1, 2001.

III. Participants

All employees who are officers, senior vice presidents, vice presidents and
executive directors of the Company or an Affiliate who are receiving
compensation in the United States from the Company or an Affiliate shall be
eligible to participate in the Plan. Any such Employee who elects to participate
in the Plan is hereinafter called a "Participant." The Company will establish
for each Participant one or more unfunded deferred compensation accounts, as
specified in Section V.

IV.  Election of Deferral

     A.  On or before December 31 of any year, each Employee eligible to
         participate shall be entitled to make an irrevocable election (in the
         form of Exhibit A) to defer receipt of all or a specified portion of
         the salary otherwise payable (whether or not otherwise deferred) from
         the Company for the following calendar year. Such election shall remain
         effective from year to year, unless changed by the Employee with
         respect to the next following calendar year.

     B.  For the first calendar year that an Employee becomes eligible, an
         Employee must make an irrevocable election (in the form of Exhibit A)
         within 30 days after the Employee becomes eligible. Elections for the
         2001 calendar year shall be made prior to January 31, 2001, in
         accordance with rules adopted by the Committee .

     C.  The term "salary" as used herein shall include all compensation other
         than income from the exercise of stock options, relocation expense
         reimbursements and tuition reimbursements. If a Participant wishes to
         defer the payment of all or a portion of the bonus earned for a
         particular year (whether or not he otherwise elects to defer salary),
         he must make a separate election. Such election will apply to the
         fiscal year of the Company in which the bonus is paid. Such election
         must be completed and returned to the Company on or before December 31
         immediately preceding the beginning of the fiscal year of the Company
         during

                                      -2-
<PAGE>

         which the bonus would be paid; provided, however, for the plan
         year beginning February 1, 2001, such election shall be made by January
         31, 2001.

     D.  Employees may elect to defer receipt of between one and twenty-five
         percent of salary, other than bonus, in increments of one percent.
         Employees, other than officers, senior vice presidents and vice
         presidents, may elect to defer receipt of between one and twenty-five
         percent of bonus, in increments of one percent. Officers, senior vice
         presidents and vice presidents may elect to defer receipt of between
         one and one hundred percent of bonus in increments of one percent.

     E.  A Participant's deferrals under the Plan shall be determined before a
         Participant's contributions to the Pharmaceutical Product Development,
         Inc. Retirement Savings Plan ("RSP"). A Participant shall make separate
         deferral elections with respect to the Plan and the RSP. At anytime
         during a calendar year a Participant by timely notifying the Committee,
         in accordance with it rules and procedures, may elect to suspend
         deferrals to the Plan. Such Participant may elect deferral for
         subsequent calendar years in accordance with the procedures in this
         Article IV.

V.  Deferred Compensation Accounts

     A.  Separate Accounts (and subaccounts if elected in accordance with D.
         below) shall be established and maintained for each Participant
         reflecting the amount deferred by the Participant in the Plan.

     B.  At the end of each calendar quarter an amount equal to the
         Participant's deferral for such quarter shall be credited to the
         appropriate Account of such Participant to reflect the salary or bonus
         otherwise payable during payroll periods ending in that calendar
         quarter but deferred pursuant to the Plan by the Participant. Interest
         will be credited to the Participant's Account as of the last day of
         each calendar quarter based upon the balance in the Participant's
         Account on the first day of such quarter after reducing that Account to
         reflect any distributions or withdrawals from such Account during such
         quarter and after crediting the Account with fifty percent of the
         deferrals for such calendar quarter. Interest for each calendar quarter
         shall be based on the three month London Interbank Offered Rate (or
         similar index designated by the Committee) plus 1.5%.

     C.  Separate subaccounts shall be established for a Participant if the
         Participant so elects and the Committee so approves in accordance with
         Section VII.

VI.  Method of Distribution of Deferred Compensation

     A.  At the time a Participant executes his or her first Deferral Agreement,
         the Participant shall duly designate, execute, and file with the
         Committee on the Deferral Agreement or other appropriate form
         designated by the Committee the date upon which the entire amount of
         his or her Account shall become payable. A Participant may designate
         that payment of his or her Account commences (the "distribution event
         date") upon (a) the date of the Participant's termination of employment
         or (b) a date 10 years after termination of employment.

                                      -3-
<PAGE>

     B.  At the time a Participant first elects a distribution event date under
         A, the Participant shall elect one of the following forms of payment
         for the amount of his or her Account:

         (i)  Lump Sum. The Participant shall receive a single sum cash payment
              equal to the amount credited to his or her Account. In the event a
              Participant elects a single sum payment, the amount of the
              Participant's Account shall be paid as soon as practicable
              following the calendar year during which the Participant's
              distribution event date occurs.

         (ii) Installments. The Participant shall receive the amount credited to
              his or her Account in ratable semi-annual installments payable
              over a period of 5, 10 or 15 years; provided however, that in no
              event may any semi-annual installment (except the last
              installment) be in an amount of less than $2,000 (or such other
              amount the Committee may specify); and provided further, that in
              the event the installment period elected by the Participant would
              otherwise result in one or more semi-annual installments of less
              than $2,000, then such installment period may be automatically
              shortened by the Committee to the extent necessary to assure that
              each such installment (except for the last one) will be an amount
              of not less than $2,000. Such semi-annual installments shall
              commence as soon as practicable following the January 1 or July 1
              immediately following the Participant's distribution event date
              and payable throughout the installment period to the participant
              as soon as practicable after each January and July 1 thereafter.
              In the event a Participant terminates employment before attaining
              age 55 and completing 10 years of service with the Company or an
              Affiliate, terminates employment under circumstances deemed by the
              Committee to be detrimental to the Company or works for a
              competitor of the Company then the Committee shall,
              notwithstanding any installment election made by the Participant,
              pay the amount the Participant has remaining in his Account, in a
              lump sum payment as soon as practicable.

     C.  A Participant may change his or her elections under A or B at any time
         by duly completing, executing, and filing with the Committee his or her
         new election in an appropriate form designated by the Committee;
         provided however, that for any such change of election to be effective,
         a full calendar year must pass between the calendar year during which
         the Participant duly makes the change of election and the calendar year
         during which distribution of any portion of the Participant's Account
         is first to become payable after taking the change of election into
         account. In the event a Participant has not made an election under A or
         B that is effective upon termination of employment, then the
         Participant shall be treated as having a distribution event date that
         is the date of the Participant's termination of employment under A; or
         a form of payment of a lump sum under B; as the case may be.

     D.  At any time a Participant may withdraw all or any fixed dollar portion
         of the Participant's Account by duly completing, executing, and filing
         with the Committee the appropriate form designated by the Committee
         establishing that

                                      -4-
<PAGE>

         the Participant has a severe financial hardship. The Committee, in its
         sole and absolute discretion, shall determine whether the Participant
         has suffered a financial hardship justifying a withdrawal. In addition,
         at any time a Participant may withdraw all or any fixed dollar portion
         of the Participant's Account by duly completing, executing and filing
         with the Committee the appropriate form designated by the Committee for
         a significant detriment withdrawal. The Committee will process such
         significant detriment withdrawal request, but shall cause a forfeiture
         to the Company from the Participant's Account of 10% of the amount
         requested by the Participant. The Participant shall receive 90% of the
         amount requested.

     E.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section VI, upon a
         Change in Control, the Plan will be deemed to have been terminated and
         a Participant's Account shall be paid to the Participant in a lump sum
         as soon as practicable; provided, however, a Participant may elect by
         duly completing, executing, and filing with the Committee on an
         appropriate form designated by the Committee that the Participant
         elects to continue to participate in the Plan, and in such event, the
         Plan will not be deemed to have been terminated with respect to the
         Participant and the Participant's Account shall not be distributed.
         Such election shall be made during the period ending on the date 30
         days following the date the Board approves a corporate event leading to
         a change in control or announces it to employees generally. Upon
         payment under this Section VI E, the obligation of the Plan and the
         Company to the Participant shall be fully satisfied and completely
         discharged, and the Participant shall be permanently barred from
         further participation in the Plan. "Change in Control" means (i) a
         change of control of a nature that would be required to be reported in
         response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 4A promulgated
         under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"),
         provided that such a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred
         if any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14 (d)(2)
         of the Exchange Act) is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or
         indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 50% or more of
         the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities;
         (ii) a sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company; or (iii)
         a liquidation of the Company.

     F.  Any amounts debited from a Participant's Account by reason of a
         distribution, withdrawal, or otherwise under this Section VI, shall be
         debited from the Participant's Account, and such other accounts,
         subaccounts, options, or other allocations in the same proportion that
         the Participant's entire Account is credited at the time such debit is
         made, as determined by the Committee.

VII.  In-Service Subaccount

     A.  A Participant may request that the Committee establish one or more
         Subaccounts providing for an in-service withdrawal that is not
         occasioned by a severe hardship or a significant detriment withdrawal
         by duly completing, executing, and filing with the Committee such
         request on an appropriate form designated by the Committee. The
         Committee may condition its approval of any Subaccount. Each Subaccount
         the Committee approves for a Participant shall be

                                      -5-
<PAGE>

         established as of the start of the calendar year following the calendar
         year during which the Committee's approval occurs; provided however,
         that in the event the Committee's approval for a Subaccount occurs
         after December 15 of a calendar year, then such Subaccount shall be
         established as of the start of the calendar year second following the
         calendar year during which such Committee approval occurred. The
         portion of an Employee's Account not credited to one or more of his or
         her Subaccounts is the Employee's Account. An Employee shall have until
         January 15, 2001, to request the establishment of a Subaccount upon the
         effective date of the Plan.

     B.  Except as provided in the following provisions of this Section VII,
         each Subaccount of a Participant shall be treated as a separate Account
         under the foregoing Sections of this Plan.

     C.  The overall limits on the maximum amounts of deferrals shall apply with
         respect to all of the Participant's Subaccounts as if all such
         Subaccounts were a single Account under the Plan. A Participant may
         designate the total amount and allocation of deferrals among his or her
         Subaccounts by completing, executing, and filing with the Committee the
         appropriate form designated by the Committee by December 15 of the
         calendar year before the calendar year in which the change is to be
         effective. In the event a Participant evidences severe financial
         hardship for a year, then all deferrals to all of the Participant's
         Subaccounts shall be stopped.

     D.  The distribution event date for each of the Participant's Subaccounts
         shall be any distribution event date irrevocably specified by the
         Employee that is no less than three years following the date the first
         amount is actually credited to that Subaccount upon duly completing,
         executing, and filing with the Committee the appropriate form
         designated by the Committee no later than the time such Subaccount is
         established. No later than the establishment of a Subaccount for a
         Participant, the Participant shall irrevocably designate on such form a
         semi-annual installment form of payment for a period that is not more
         than eight semi-annual installments. Separate elections under the
         foregoing provisions of this Section VII, D will be made for each
         Subaccount established for a Participant. No withdrawals before the
         distribution event date may be made from any Subaccount. In the event a
         Participant fails to designate either the timing or form of
         distribution of any Subaccount established for the Participant, then
         any amounts that are or would have been allocated to such Subaccount
         shall be credited instead to the Participant's Account. All of a
         Participant's Subaccounts shall be treated as a single Account under
         the Plan for purposes of any death benefits payable under the Plan.

     E.  A Participant may elect to dissolve any Subaccount established on his
         or her behalf and to transfer the balance of that Subaccount in
         multiples of 10 percent of each balance to his or her other
         Subaccounts, or 100 percent of such balance to his or her Account, as
         the case may be, by duly completing, executing, and filing with the
         Committee an appropriate form designated by the Committee; provided
         however, that for an election to dissolve a Subaccount to be effective,
         a full calendar year must pass between the calendar year during which

                                      -6-
<PAGE>

         the Participant duly makes the dissolution election and the calendar
         year during which distribution of any portion of such Subaccount is
         first to become payable; and provided further that in the absence of
         such elective allocation of the balance of the Subaccount upon its
         dissolution, that the balance shall be transferred in its entirety to
         the Participant's Account. In no other event may transfers be made
         among the Participant's Subaccounts.

VIII.  Distribution Upon Death

If any Participant dies before receiving all amounts credited to his Account,
the unpaid amounts in the Participant's account shall be paid to the
Participant's beneficiary or beneficiaries in accordance with the last effective
beneficiary designation form filed by the Participant with the Committee. Such
unpaid amounts shall be paid in one lump sum within 30 days after the date of
death.  Each Participant shall file with the Committee a form indicating the
person, persons, or entity which are to receive the Participant's benefits under
the Plan if he dies before receiving all the balances in his Account. A
Participant's beneficiary designation may be changed at any time prior to his
death by execution and delivery of a new beneficiary designation form. If a
Participant has failed to designate a beneficiary or no designated beneficiary
survives the Participant, payment shall be made in a lump sum to the estate of
the Participant. A beneficiary who fails to survive a Participant by at least 10
days shall be deemed to have predeceased the Participant.

IX.    Benefit Plans

       A. The amount of each Participant's compensation which he elects to defer
          under the Plan shall not be deemed to be compensation for the purpose
          of calculating the amount of a Participant's benefits or contributions
          under a pension plan or retirement plan (qualified under Section
          401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code), but shall be deemed to be
          compensation for purpose of calculating the amount of a Participant's
          amount of life insurance under a Company-supplied life insurance plan,
          the basis for establishing disability payments under a disability plan
          or the basis or amount for any other Company-supplied benefit plan
          where the benefits are based upon an employee's compensation.

       B. With respect to any benefit plan under which an Employee's
          contribution is based on the Employee's compensation, the amount of
          the Participant's contribution to any such plan shall not take into
          account the amount of the Participant's compensation deferred under
          this Plan unless otherwise specifically provided in such plan.

       C. No amount distributed to a Participant from a Participant's Account
          under this Plan shall be deemed to be compensation with respect to a
          Participant's entitlement to benefits under any employee benefit plan
          established by the Company for its employees unless otherwise
          specifically provided in such plan.

X.     Participant's Rights

Establishment of the Plan shall not be construed to give any Participant the
right to be retained in the Company's or an Affiliate's service or to any
benefits not specifically provided by the Plan.

                                      -7-
<PAGE>

A Participant shall not have any interest in the deferred compensation and
earnings credited to his Account until such accounts are distributed in
accordance with the Plan. All amounts deferred or otherwise held for the account
of a Participant under the Plan shall remain the sole property of the Company,
subject to the claims of its general creditors and available for its use for
whatever purposes are desired. With respect to amounts deferred or otherwise
held for the account of a Participant, the Participant is merely a general
creditor of the Company; and the obligation of the Company hereunder is purely
contractual and shall not be funded or secured in any way. At its discretion,
the Company may establish one or more grantor trusts to assist the Company in
accumulating the funds needed to meets its obligation under the Plan.

In case the claim of any Participant or beneficiary for benefits under the Plan
is denied, the Committee shall provide adequate notice in writing to such
claimant, setting forth the specific reasons for such denial. The notice shall
be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant. The
Committee shall afford a Participant or beneficiary whose claim for benefits has
been denied 60 days from the date notice of such denial is delivered or mailed
in which to appeal the decision in writing to the Committee. If the Participant
or beneficiary appeals the decision in writing within 60 days, the Committee
shall review the written comments and any submissions of the Participant or
beneficiary and render its decision regarding the appeal all within 60 days of
such appeal.

XI.    Non-alienability and Non-transferability

The rights of a Participant to the payment of deferred compensation as provided
in the Plan shall not be assigned, transferred, pledged or encumbered, or be
subject in any manner to alienation or anticipation. No Participant may borrow
against his Account. No Account shall be subject in any manner to anticipation,
alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, charge,
garnishment, execution, or levy of any kind, whether voluntary or involuntary,
including any liability which is for alimony or other payments for the support
of a spouse or former spouse, or for any other relative of any Participant.

XII.   Statement of Account

Statements will be sent to Participants within 60 days after the end of each
calendar quarter as to the balance in their deferred compensation Accounts as of
the end of such calendar quarter.

XIII.  Administration

The Administrator of the Plan shall be the Benefits Administrative Committee of
the Company (the "Committee"). The Committee shall have authority to adopt rules
and regulations for carrying out the Plan and to interpret, construe, and
implement the provisions thereof. Any decision or interpretation of any
provision of the Plan adopted by the Committee shall be final and conclusive.

XIV.   Amendment and Termination

The Plan may, at any time, be amended, modified, or terminated by the Board of
Directors of the Company. No amendment, modification, or termination shall,
without the consent of a Participant, adversely affect such Participant's right
with respect to amounts accrued in his or her deferred compensation Account.

                                      -8-
<PAGE>

XV.    General Provisions

       A. Notices. All notices to the Committee hereunder shall be delivered to
          -------
          the attention of the Secretary of the Committee. Any notice or filing
          required or permitted to be given to the Committee under this Plan
          shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or sent by
          registered or certified mail, to the Committee at the principal office
          of the Company. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of
          delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the
          postmark or the receipt for registration or certification.

       B. Controlling Law. Except to the extent superseded by federal law, the
          ---------------
          laws of the state of North Carolina shall be controlling in all
          matters relating to the Plan.

       C. Gender and Number. Where the context admits, words in the masculine
          -----------------
          gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders, the plural shall
          include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.

       D. Captions. The captions of Sections and paragraphs of this Plan are for
          --------
          convenience only and s hall not control or affect the meaning of
          construction of any of its provisions.

       E. Action by the Company. Any action required or permitted by the Company
          ---------------------
          under the Plan shall be by resolution of its Board of Directors or any
          person or persons authorized by resolution of its Board of Directors.

       F. Facility of Payment. Any amounts payable hereunder to any person under
          -------------------
          legal disability or who, in the judgment of the Committee is unable to
          properly manage his financial affairs may be paid to the legal
          representative of such person or may be applied for the benefit of
          such person in any manner which the Committee may select.

       G. Withholding Payroll Taxes. To the extent required by the laws in
          -------------------------
          effect at the time amounts are deferred or deferred compensation
          payments are made, the Company shall withhold (from other compensation
          in the case of deferrals) any taxes required to be withheld for
          federal, state, or local government purposes.

       H. Severability. Whenever possible, each provision of the Plan shall be
          ------------
          interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under
          applicable law (including the Internal Revenue Code), but if any
          provision of the Plan shall be held to be prohibited by or invalid
          under applicable law, then (a) such provision shall be deemed amended
          to, and to have contained from the outset such language as shall be
          necessary to, accomplish the objectives of the provision as originally
          written to the fullest extent permitted by law and (b) all other
          provisions of the Plan shall remain in full force and effect.

       I. No Strict Construction. No rule of strict construction shall be
          ----------------------
          applied against the Company, the Board of Directors, Committee or any
          other person in the interpretation of any of the terms of the Plan or
          any rule or procedure established by the Company or Committee.

                                      -9-
<PAGE>

       J. Successors. The provisions of the Plan shall bind and inure to the
          ----------
          benefit of the Company and its Affiliates and their successors and
          assigns. The term "successors" as used herein shall include any
          corporation or other business entity which shall by merger,
          consolidation, purchase, or otherwise, acquire all or substantially
          all of the business and assets of the Company and successors of any
          such corporation or other business entity.

XVI.  Unfunded State of the Plan

Any and all payments made to the Participant pursuant to the Plan shall be made
only from the general assets of the Company, or at the discretion of the
Company, such payments shall be made from a grantor trust established by the
Company. All accounts under the Plan shall be for bookkeeping purposes only and
shall not represent a claim against specific assets of the Company. Nothing
contained in this Plan shall be deemed to create a trust of any kind or create
any fiduciary relationship.



IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. has caused its
corporate seal to be hereunto affixed and has caused its name to be signed
hereto by its Chief Executive Officer and attested by its Secretary, pursuant to
due authority of its Board of Directors as of this 4th day January, 2001.



                                   By: /s/ Fredric N. Eshelman
                                       ---------------------------------------
                                       Chief Executive Officer
                                       Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc.


(Corporate Seal)

Attest:


/s/ Fred B. Davenport, Jr.
- -------------------------
Secretary

                                      -10-
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.159
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>0008.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FIFTH AMENDMENT TO LOAN AGREEMENT DATED 12/19/2000
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.159

                                FIFTH AMENDMENT

     THIS FIFTH AMENDMENT (this "Amendment") dated as of December 19, 2000, to
                                 ---------
the Loan Agreement referenced below, is by and among Pharmaceutical Product
Development, Inc., a North Carolina corporation (the "Borrower"), the
                                                      --------
Subsidiaries of the Borrower identified on the signature pages hereto (the
"Guarantors") and First Union National Bank (the "Bank").  Terms used herein but
 ----------                                       ----
not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings provided to such terms in
the Loan Agreement.

                              W I T N E S S E T H

     WHEREAS, a $50 million credit facility has been established in favor of the
Borrower pursuant to the terms of that Loan Agreement dated as of June 24, 1998
(as amended and modified from time to time, the "Loan Agreement") among the
                                                 --------------
Borrower, the Guarantors and the Bank;

     WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested certain modifications to Loan
Agreement;

     WHEREAS, the Bank has agreed to the modifications on the terms and
conditions set forth herein;

     NOW, THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION of the premises and other good and
valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:

     1.   Section 6.9 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:

          6.9   Investments.  The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any of
                -----------
          its subsidiaries to, make loans or advances or otherwise make an
          investment in or capital contribution to (collectively, an
          "Investment"), any other Person, except:
           ----------

               (a)  cash and cash equivalents and other publicly traded equity
          and debt instruments reasonably acceptable to the Bank;

               (b)  loans and advances to officers, directors, employees and
          shareholders not to exceed $2,000,000;

               (c)  Investments in and to Digital Arts & Science in an aggregate
          principal amount (on a cost basis) not to exceed $1,500,000 at any
          time;

               (d)  Investments in and to Axys Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and/or
          PPGx, Inc. in an aggregate principal amount (on a cost basis) not to
          exceed $3,500,000 at any time;

               (e)  seller financing promissory note from current management of
          APBI in favor of the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount not to
          exceed $18,000,000 in connection with the sale of APBI to current
          management of APBI;

               (f)  cash equity investments in and to ADoctorInYourHouse.com in
          an aggregate principal amount (on a cost basis) not to exceed
          $5,000,000 at any time;
<PAGE>

               (g)  loans and advances to NeoRx in an aggregate principal amount
          not to exceed $5,000,000 at any time;

               (h)  acquisition of capital stock of DNA Sciences, Inc. in an
          amount not to exceed $15,000,000;

               (i)  cash equity investment in PPGx, Inc. in an amount equal to
          fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding amounts (principal and
          interest) due under the Loan Agreement dated as of February 1, 1999
          among PPGx, Inc., the Borrower and the Bank;

               (j)  acquisition of capital stock of PPGx, Inc. in an amount not
          to exceed $5,900,000;

               (k)  Investments in and to a Credit Party; and

               (l)  other Investments in an aggregate principal amount (on a
          cost basis) at any time of up to $5,000,000.

     2.   This Amendment shall be effective upon execution of this Amendment by
the Borrower, the Guarantors and the Bank.

     3.   Except as modified hereby, all of the terms and provisions of the Loan
Agreement (including Schedules and Exhibits) shall remain in full force and
effect.

     4.   The Borrower agree to pay all reasonable costs and expenses of the
Bank in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of this
Amendment, including without limitation the reasonable fees and expenses of
Moore & Van Allen, PLLC.

     5.   This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of
which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed an original and it shall
not be necessary in making proof of this Amendment to produce or account for
more than one such counterpart.

     6.   This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under, and for
all purposes shall be construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of
North Carolina.

                 [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]

                                       2
<PAGE>

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has caused a counterpart of
this Amendment to be duly executed and delivered as of the date first above
written.

BORROWER:                              PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC.,
                                       a North Carolina corporation

                                       By: /s/Fred B. Davenport, Jr.
                                          ----------------------------------
                                       Name: Fred B. Davenport, Jr.
                                       Title: Vice President


GUARANTORS:                            PPD DEVELOPMENT, LLC,
                                       a Texas limited liability company

                                       By: /s/Fred B. Davenport, Jr.
                                          ----------------------------------
                                       Name: Fred B. Davenport, Jr.
                                       Title: Manager


BANK:                                  FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK

                                       By: /s/G. Mendel Lay, Jr.
                                          ----------------------------------
                                       Name: G. Mendel Lay, Jr.
                                       Title:  Senior Vice President
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.160
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>0009.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FIRST AMENDMENT TO SUBORDINATION AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.160

                                FIRST AMENDMENT
                            TO AND REAFFIRMATION OF
                   SUBORDINATION AND INTERCREDITOR AGREEMENT
                   -----------------------------------------

     THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO AND REAFFIRMATION OF SUBORDINATION AND
INTERCREDITOR AGREEMENT (this "Amendment") is made and executed as of the 17th
day of October, 2000 by APPLIED BIOSCIENCE INTERNATIONAL INC., a Delaware
corporation ("ABI"), PPD UK HOLDINGS LIMITED, a private company incorporated in
England and Wales (collectively, the "Subordinate Creditors"), ENVIRON HOLDINGS,
INC., a Delaware corporation ("EHI"), ENVIRON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
(formerly known as APBI Environmental Sciences Group, Inc.), a Virginia
corporation ("EIC") and ENVIRON FACILITY SERVICES CORPORATION, a Virginia
corporation (the "New Borrower", together with EHI and EIC, collectively, the
"Borrowers"), and FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK, a national banking association, its
successors and assigns (the "Bank").

                                    RECITALS

     WHEREAS, the Bank has previously agreed, inter alia, to make a certain term
                                              ----- ----
loan to EHI and EIC in the maximum outstanding principal amount of $6,708,333.34
(the "Term Loan") and a revolving credit loan to EHI and EIC in the maximum
outstanding principal amount of $3,500,000 (the "Revolving Loan", together with
the Term Loan, the "Loans") pursuant to that certain Credit and Security
Agreement by and among EHI, EIC and the Bank dated March 30, 1999 as amended by
that certain First Amendment to Credit and Security Agreement (the "First
Amendment") dated November, 1999 and as further amended pursuant to that certain
Second Amendment to Credit and Security Agreement (the "Second Amendment") of
even date herewith (as hereafter amended, restated, modified or renewed from
time to time, the "Credit Agreement"); and

     WHEREAS, ABI has previously agreed, inter alia, to make a certain
                                         ----- ----
acquisition loan to EHI and EIC in the original principal amount of $18,000,000
pursuant to a Credit and Security Agreement by and among ABI, EHI and EIC dated
February 2, 1999, as amended by that certain Amendment No. 1 to Credit and
Security Agreement dated March 30, 1999 (the "ABI First Amendment"), that
certain Amendment No. 2 and Restatement of Credit and Security Agreement dated
November 24, 1999 (the "ABI Second Amendment") and that certain Amendment No. 3
to Credit and Security Agreement (the "ABI Third Amendment") of even date
herewith (said Credit Agreement, as heretofore and hereafter amended, restated,
modified or renewed from time to time, the "ABI Credit Agreement"); and

     WHEREAS, pursuant to a plan of corporate restructuring approved by EIC's
Board of Directors, EIC has created a separate legal entity for its facilities
group in the form of the New Borrower and has transferred all of its assets
related to the facilities group to the New Borrower pursuant to that certain
Asset Purchase Agreement dated January 1, 2000 by and between EIC and the New
Borrower (the "Facilities Group Spin Off") and the Borrowers have requested that
the Bank consent to the Facilities Group Spin Off, and the Bank has consented
upon the conditions, among others, that the New Borrower be added as a co-
borrower under the Credit Agreement, the Restated Revolving Note (as defined in
the Second Amendment) and the
<PAGE>

Restated Term Note (as defined in the Second Amendment) pursuant to the Second
Amendment and that the parties hereto execute this Amendment; and

     WHEREAS, the Borrowers have requested that the Subordinate Creditors
consent to the Facilities Group Spin Off, and the Subordinate Creditors have
consented upon the conditions, among others, that the New Borrower be added as a
co-borrower under the ABI Credit Agreement and the Seller Note (as defined in
the ABI Credit Agreement) pursuant to the ABI Third Amendment and that the
parties hereto execute this Amendment; and

     WHEREAS, in connection with the execution of the Credit Agreement, the
Subordinate Creditors, EHI, EIC and the Bank entered into that certain
Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement dated as of March 30, 1999
(collectively, the "Agreement"); and

     WHEREAS, the Bank is not willing to consent to the Facilities Group Spin
Off or enter into the Second Amendment unless the Subordinate Creditors and the
Borrowers each unconditionally reaffirm their obligations under the Agreement as
modified below and consent to such amendments; and

     WHEREAS, the Subordinate Creditors are not willing to consent to the
Facilities Group Spin Off or enter into the ABI Third Amendment unless the Bank
and the Borrowers each unconditionally reaffirm their obligations under the
Agreement as modified below and consent to such amendments.

                                   AGREEMENT

     NOW THEREFORE, as an inducement for the Bank and the Subordinate Creditors
to consent to the Facilities Group Spin Off, for the Bank to enter into the
Second Amendment, for ABI to enter into the ABI Third Amendment, and for other
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties do hereby agree as follows:

     1.   Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in the Agreement.

     2.   The Recitals set forth hereinabove are hereby incorporated by this
reference with the same force and effect as it fully set forth herein.

     3.   The parties hereto each acknowledge and agree that (a) the term
"Borrower" and "Borrowers" as used in the Agreement shall include the New
Borrower, (b) the definitions of the terms "Bank Credit Agreement," "Level 1
Senior Creditor Loan Documents" and "Senior Creditor Loan Documents" set forth
in the Agreement include the First Amendment, the Second Amendment, the Restated
Revolving Note and the Restated Term Note and any other respective amendments of
each of said documents being executed and delivered simultaneously herewith in
connection with the Second Amendment, copies or originals of which have been
received and reviewed by the Subordinate Creditors and the Borrowers, and (c)
the definition of the term "Subordinate Creditor Loan Documents" as set forth in
the Agreement includes the ABI First Amendment, the ABI Second Amendment, the
ABI Third Amendment, the Restated Seller Note

                                       2
<PAGE>

(as defined in the ABI Third Amendment) and any other respective amendments of
each of said documents being executed and delivered simultaneously herewith in
connection with the ABI Third Amendment, copies or originals of which have been
received and reviewed by the Bank and the Borrowers.

     4.   Each of the Subordinate Creditors and each of the Borrowers hereby
unconditionally reaffirm all of their respective obligations to Bank under the
Agreement.

     5.   The Borrowers each certify that the representations and warranties
contained in the Agreement remain true, correct and complete in all material
respects as of the date hereof with the same force and effect as if made on the
date hereof and that each of the Borrowers has no offsets, counterclaims or
defenses to any of its obligations under the Agreement as modified hereby.

     6.   The Bank and each of the Borrowers hereby unconditionally reaffirm all
of their respective obligations to the Subordinate Creditors under the
Agreement.

     7.   The Bank and the Subordinate Creditors each certify that the
representations and warranties contained in the Agreement and made by it or
them, respectively, remain true, correct and complete in all material respects
as of the date hereof with the same force and effect as if made on the date
hereof.

     8.   Except as modified hereby, the Agreement remains unmodified and in
full force and effect.

     9.   Contemporaneously herewith, EIC has delivered to Senior Creditor the
original promissory note evidencing the purchase price for the assets conveyed
to the New Borrower in furtherance of the Facilities Group Spin Off (the "New
Borrower Note").  The New Borrower Note will be held by the Senior Creditor as
Collateral in accordance with the terms of the Senior Creditor Loan Documents.
After payment in full of the Level I Senior Creditor Obligations, Senior
Creditor shall deliver forthwith the New Borrower Note to the Subordinate
Creditor to be held by the Subordinate Creditor as Collateral in accordance with
the terms of the Subordinate Creditor Loan Documents.

                      [Signatures follow on the next page]

                                       3
<PAGE>

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed and delivered this
Amendment as of the day and year first hereinabove written.


WITNESS:                                     BANK:
                                             ----

                                             FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK


 /s/ Linda Daly                         By: /s/ Monica Sevila             (SEAL)
- ------------------------------              ------------------------------
                                            Name: Monica Sevila
                                            Title: Vice President


                                             SUBORDINATE CREDITORS:
                                             ---------------------

                                               APPLIED BIOSCIENCE
                                               INTERNATIONAL INC.


 /s/ Joanne Teague                      By: /s/ Fred B. Davenport, Jr.    (SEAL)
- ------------------------------              ------------------------------
                                            Name:  Fred B. Davenport, Jr.
                                            Title:  Vice President


                                               PPD UK HOLDINGS


 /s/ Joanne Teague                      By: /s/ Fred B. Davenport, Jr.    (SEAL)
- ------------------------------              ------------------------------
                                            Name:  Fred B. Davenport, Jr.
                                            Title:  Director

     Each Borrower signs this Agreement under seal at the requests of Senior
Creditor and Subordinate Creditors, to acknowledge that each Borrower consents
to the terms of the foregoing Amendment and covenants and agrees to be bound
thereby for the benefit of Senior Creditor and Subordinate Creditors.

                                            ENVIRON HOLDINGS, INC.


 /s/ Margaret Breyer                    By: /s/ Joseph Highland           (SEAL)
- ------------------------------              ------------------------------
                                            Name:  Joseph Highland
                                            Title: Chairman, Chief Executive
                                                   Officer & Secretary

                                       4
<PAGE>

                                            ENVIRON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION


 /s/ Margaret Breyer                    By: /s/ Joseph Highland           (SEAL)
- ------------------------------              ------------------------------
                                            Name:  Joseph Highland
                                            Title: Chairman, Chief Executive
                                                   Officer & Secretary



                                            ENVIRON FACILITY SERVICES
                                            CORPORATION


 /s/ Margaret Breyer                    By: /s/ Joseph Highland           (SEAL)
- ------------------------------              ------------------------------
                                            Name:  Joseph Highland
                                            Title: Chairman, Chief Executive
                                                   Officer & Secretary

                                       5
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.161
<SEQUENCE>10
<FILENAME>0010.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SIXTH AMENDMENT TO LOAN AGREEMENT DATED 12/20/2000
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.161


                       SIXTH AMENDMENT TO LOAN AGREEMENT


          THIS SIXTH AMENDMENT TO LOAN AGREEMENT (this "Amendment") is made as
of the 20th day of December, 2000, by and among PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT
DEVELOPMENT, INC., a North Carolina corporation (together with its successors,
the "Borrower"); PPD DEVELOPMENT, LLC, a Texas limited liability company,
formerly PPD DEVELOPMENT, INC., a Texas corporation formerly known as PPD
PHARMACO, INC., a Texas corporation (the "Guarantor"); and WACHOVIA BANK, N.A.,
a national banking association (together with its endorsees, successors and
assigns, the "Bank").

                               R E C I T A L S:
                               ---------------

          The Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank are parties to a certain Loan
Agreement dated as of August 7, 1997, as amended pursuant to an Amendment to
Loan Agreement dated as of August 6, 1998, a Second Amendment to Loan Agreement
dated as of January 30, 1999, a Third Amendment to Loan Agreement dated as of
November 11, 1999, a Fourth Amendment to Loan Agreement dated as of February 23,
2000, and a Fifth Amendment to Loan Agreement dated as of August 1, 2000 (the
"Loan Agreement").

          Capitalized terms used in this Amendment which are not otherwise
defined in this Amendment shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in
the Loan Agreement.

          The Borrower has requested certain modifications to the Loan Agreement
and the Bank is willing to modify the Loan Agreement subject to the terms,
provisions and conditions set forth in this Amendment.

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the Recitals, the mutual promises
herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Borrower, the Guarantor and
the Bank, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:

          SECTION 1.  Recitals.  The Recitals are incorporated herein by
                      --------
reference and shall be deemed to be a part of this Amendment.

          SECTION 2.  Amendment.  Effective from and after December 20, 2000,
                      ---------
the Loan Agreement is hereby amended as follows:

          2.1  In Section 6.9 of the Loan Agreement, subsection (d) is amended
to read as follows and subsections (h) and (i) are re-lettered as (k) and (l),
respectively, and new subsections (h), (i) and (j) are hereby added to Section
6.9 of the Loan Agreement to read as follows:
<PAGE>

          "(d) Investments in and to Axys Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and/or PPGx,
     Inc., in an aggregate principal amount (on a cost basis) not to exceed
     $3,500,000 at any time except as provided in subsections (i) and (j)
     below;"

          "(h) acquisition of capital stock of DNA Sciences, Inc. in an amount
     not to exceed $15,000,000;

          (i)  cash equity investment in PPGx, Inc. in an amount not to exceed
     $4,700,000 (which amount represents fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding
     amounts (principal and interest) due under the Loan Agreement dated as of
     February 1, 1999 among PPGx, Inc., the Borrower and First Union National
     Bank);

          (j)  acquisition of capital stock of PPGx, Inc. in an amount not to
     exceed $5,900,000;"

          SECTION 3.  Conditions to Effectiveness.  The effectiveness of this
                      ---------------------------
Amendment and the obligations of the Bank hereunder are subject to receipt by
the Bank of the following:

          (a)  an original Amendment, duly executed by the Borrower and the
     Guarantor;

          (b)  a certificate of incumbency satisfactory to the Bank, certifying
     as to the names, true signatures and incumbency of the officer or officers
     of the Borrower and the members or managers of the Guarantor authorized to
     execute and deliver this Amendment;

          (c)  such other documents or items as the Bank or its counsel may
     reasonably request.

The effectiveness of this Amendment and the obligations of the Bank hereunder
are further subject to the condition that no Event of Default or event or
condition which with notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event
of Default under the Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, shall have occurred and
be continuing, and the representations and warranties contained in Section 5 of
the Loan Agreement, as amended herein, are true on and as of the date hereof.

          SECTION 4.  No Other Amendment.  Except for the amendments set forth
                      ------------------
above, the Loan Agreement shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect.
This Amendment is not intended to effect, nor shall it be construed as, a
novation.  The Loan Agreement and this Amendment shall be construed together as
a single agreement.  Nothing herein contained shall waive, annul, alter, limit,
diminish, vary or affect any provision, condition, covenant or agreement
contained in the Loan Agreement, except as herein amended, nor affect or

                                      -2-
<PAGE>

impair any rights, powers or remedies under the Loan Agreement as hereby
amended. The Bank does hereby reserve all of its rights and remedies against all
parties who may be or may hereafter become secondarily liable for the repayment
of the Loan. The Borrower and the Guarantor promise and agree to perform all of
the requirements, conditions, agreements and obligations under the terms of the
Loan Agreement, as hereby amended, the Loan Agreement, as amended, and the
Guaranty contained in the Loan Agreement, being hereby ratified and affirmed.
The Borrower and Guarantor hereby expressly agree that the Loan Agreement, as
amended, is in full force and effect and confirm that they have no set off,
counterclaim or defense with respect to the Loan Agreement, the Loan, the Note,
the Guaranty contained in the Loan Agreement or the Guaranteed Obligations.

          SECTION 5.  Representations and Warranties.  The Borrower and the
                      ------------------------------
Guarantor hereby represent and warrant to the Bank as follows:

          (a)  No Event of Default or event or condition which with notice or
     lapse or time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default under the Loan
     Agreement, as hereby amended, has occurred and is continuing on the date
     hereof.

          (b)  The representations and warranties contained in Section 5 of the
     Loan Agreement, as amended herein, are true on and as of the date of this
     Amendment.

          (c)  This Amendment has been duly authorized, validly executed and
     delivered by one or more authorized officers of the Borrower and the
     Guarantor, and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of the
     Borrower and Guarantor enforceable against them in accordance with its
     terms.

          (d)  The execution and delivery of this Amendment and the Borrower's
     and the Guarantor's performance hereunder do not and will not require the
     consent or approval of any regulatory authority or governmental authority
     or agency having jurisdiction over the Borrower or the Guarantor, nor be in
     contravention of or in conflict with the Articles of Incorporation or
     Bylaws of the Borrower or the operating agreement or Articles of
     Organization of the Guarantor, or the provision of any statute, or any
     judgment, order or indenture, instrument, agreement or undertaking to which
     the Borrower or the Guarantor is party or by which the Borrower's or the
     Guarantor's assets or properties are or may become bound.

          SECTION 6.  Counterparts.  This Amendment may be executed in
                      ------------
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which,
taken together, shall constitute one and the same agreement.

          SECTION 7.  Governing Law.  This Amendment shall be deemed to be made
                      -------------
pursuant to the laws of the State of North Carolina with respect to agreements
made and to be

                                      -3-
<PAGE>

performed wholly in the State of North Carolina and shall be construed,
interpreted, performed and enforced in accordance therewith.

          SECTION 8.  Costs and Expenses.  The Borrower shall pay any and all
                      ------------------
out-of-pocket expenses in connection with the preparation, execution and
delivery of this Amendment, including, without limitation, the fees and expenses
of the Bank's counsel in connection therewith.

          SECTION 9.  Entire Agreement.  This Amendment contains the entire
                      ----------------
agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and there
are no representations, inducements or other provisions among the parties
regarding such subject matter other than those expressed herein in writing.  All
changes, additions or deletions to this Amendment must be in writing and signed
by all parties.

          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused their respective
duly authorized officers or representatives to execute and deliver this
Amendment as of the day and year first above written.


                                        BORROWER:

ATTEST:                                 PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT
                                        DEVELOPMENT, INC.

/s/ Fred B. Davenport, Jr.              By: /s/Fredric N. Eshelman
- ---------------------------------           ----------------------
Fred B. Davenport, Jr.  Secretary       Title: Chief Executive Officer


[CORPORATE SEAL]


                                        BANK:

                                        WACHOVIA BANK, N.A.


                                        By: /s/ Alex K. Turner
                                            ------------------
                                        Title:  Assistant Vice President


                                        GUARANTOR:

                                        PPD DEVELOPMENT, LLC             (SEAL)


                                        By: /s/ Fredric N. Eshelman   (SEAL)
                                            -------------------------
                                                      Manager

                                      -4-
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.162
<SEQUENCE>11
<FILENAME>0011.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SEVERANCE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.162

                              SEVERANCE AGREEMENT


     THIS AGREEMENT, effective the 1st day of January, 2001, by and between
Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates
(collectively, "PPD") and ___________________ ("Employee").

     WHEREAS, Employee is a valued employee of PPD and in order to induce
Employee to remain in the employ of PPD, PPD desires to provide the severance
benefits hereinafter described in the event of a "Change in Control", as
hereinafter defined, of PPD.

     NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed as follows:

     1.   Definitions
          -----------

          1.01    "AFR" means the interest rate determined under Section 1274 of
the Code.

          1.02    "Base Amount" shall have the meaning set forth and shall be
determined as provided in Section 280G of the Code.

          1.03    "Change in Control" means (i) a change of control of a nature
that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A
of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended ("Exchange Act"), provided that such a Change in Control shall be deemed
to have occurred if any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and
14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or
indirectly, of securities of PPD representing 50% or more of the combined voting
power of PPD's then outstanding securities; (ii) a sale of substantially all of
the assets of PPD; or (iii) a liquidation of PPD.

          1.04    "Constructive Termination" means a termination of Employee's
employment by PPD during the Covered Period initiated by Employee after (i) a
substantial diminution or alteration in the duties of Employee, (ii) a reduction
by PPD in Employee's base salary in effect on the date of the Change in Control,
or (iii) the relocation of Employee's primary work location to a location that
is more than twenty-five (25) miles from Employee's primary work location prior
to the Change in Control.   Constructive Termination specifically does not
include termination of Employee by reason of death, Disability or retirement at
or after age 65.  Employee shall give PPD written notice of a Constructive
Termination, which notice shall provide a brief description of the circumstances
which Employee asserts gives rise to a right of Constructive Termination, and
PPD shall have ten (10) days from receipt of said notice within which to remedy
said circumstances.

                                       1
<PAGE>

          1.05    "Covered Payment" means the amounts and benefits paid to
Employee pursuant to this Agreement, taken together with any amounts or benefits
otherwise paid or distributed to Employee by PPD.

          1.06    "Covered Period" means the time period commencing on the date
of and coincident with a Change of Control and ending one year thereafter.

          1.07    "Disability" means the inability of Employee to perform his
assigned duties for PPD for a period of three (3) months due to Employee's
physical or mental illness as determined by a reputable medical doctor.

          1.08    "Excess Parachute Payment" shall have the meaning set forth
and shall be determined as provided in Section 280G of the Code.

          1.09    "Excise Tax" shall mean the tax imposed under Section 4999 of
the Code on an Excess Parachute Payment.

          1.10    "Executive Consultant" shall mean the executive compensation
or comparable consultant used from time to time by PPD in designing its
compensation program for executive and senior management employees of PPD;
provided, however, that in its sole discretion PPD may at any time designate its
independent auditors as its Executive Consultant for the purpose of performing
any calculations required under Section 2.05 of this Agreement.

          1.11    "Final Determination" means a final determination by a court
of competent jurisdiction or a proceeding of the Internal Revenue Service or its
successor agency.

          1.12    "First Period" means the twelve-month period ending on the
Termination Date.

          1.13    "Internal Revenue Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 as heretofore or hereafter amended, and any successor code. References in
this agreement to specific sections of the Code shall also include any successor
sections.

          1.14    "Parachute Payments" shall have the meaning set forth and
shall be determined as provided in Section 280G of the Code.

          1.15    "Payment Cap" means the maximum amount which may be paid to
Employee under the terms of this Agreement without subjecting Employee to the
Excise Tax.

          1.16    "Payment Date" means the date thirty (30) days following the
Termination Date.

                                       2
<PAGE>

          1.17    "Stock Awards" means Employee's outstanding awards of PPD non-
qualified stock options or restricted stock as of the Termination Date.

          1.18    "Termination for Cause" means (i) an act or acts involving
fraud, embezzlement or theft from PPD, (ii) Employee's willful and repeated
failure to follow directions of the Board of Directors that continues for at
least ten (10) days following written notice of the Board of Directors of such
failure to follow directions, or (iii) termination for cause as defined in and
made pursuant to a then effective employment agreement, if any, between Employee
and PPD.

          1.19    "Termination Date" means the date on which Employee's
employment is terminated such that Employee is entitled to the compensation and
benefits provided for in Section 2 of this Agreement.

     2.   Compensation Upon Change of Control.  If during the Covered Period
          -----------------------------------
(i) PPD terminates Employee's employment for reason other than Termination for
Cause or (ii)  Employee's employment is terminated by reason of Constructive
Termination, Employee shall be entitled to the following compensation and
benefits:

          2.01    Base Salary and Bonus.  PPD shall pay Employee an amount equal
to ___________ times the sum of Employee's (i) base salary for the First Period
(determined as if Employee was employed for the entire First Period if employed
for less than the First Period) and (ii) the greater of (x) Employee's target
bonus under the PPD incentive cash bonus plan in which Employee is eligible to
participate immediately prior to the Termination Date or (y) the average of the
cash bonuses received in the First Period and in the twelve-month period
immediately preceding the First Period, said amount to be paid on the Payment
Date.

          2.02    Unpaid and Deferred Compensation.  PPD shall pay Employee any
bonus or deferred compensation (whether in the form of cash, stock or otherwise)
accrued but unpaid as of the Termination Date, said sum to be paid on the
Payment Date.

          2.03    Benefits.  For a period of ________________ after the
Termination Date, PPD shall continue to pay for and provide welfare benefits
which Employee was receiving immediately prior to the Termination Date,
including life insurance, health, medical, dental, vision and wellness,
accidental death and dismemberment and disability benefits; provided, however,
that PPD's obligations under this clause shall terminate from the date that
Employee first becomes eligible after the Termination Date for similar coverage
under another employer's plan.

          2.04    Stock Awards.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
agreement for Stock Awards, (i) all unvested shares underlying Stock Awards
granted more than six months prior to the Termination Date shall become fully
vested as of the Termination Date, and (ii) Employee shall continue to be
treated under each award agreement evidencing a Stock Award as if Employee was
an employee of PPD until the

                                       3
<PAGE>

first to occur of (x) the third anniversary of the Termination Date, or (y) the
expiration of the exercise period provided for therein; provided, however, in
the event of Employee's death or his disability (as disability is defined in the
award agreement) after the Termination Date, the time for exercise after death
or such disability prescribed in the award agreement shall apply. The provisions
of this Section 2.04 shall also apply to any and all substitute awards for
nonqualified stock options and restricted stock granted to Employee in exchange
for Stock Awards to which this section applies.

          2.05    Limitation on Payments.

                  a.  Application of Section 2.05.  If a Covered Payment
hereunder would be an Excess Parachute Payment and would thereby subject
Employee to the Excise Tax, the provisions of this Section 2.05 shall apply to
determine the amounts payable to Employee pursuant to this Agreement.

                  b.  Calculation of Benefits.  At least fifteen (15) days prior
to the Payment Date, PPD shall notify Employee of the aggregate present value of
all amounts and benefits to which Employee would be entitled under this
Agreement and any other plan, program or arrangement with PPD as of the
Termination Date, together with the projected maximum payments, determined as of
such Date of Termination, that could be paid without Employee being subject to
the Excise Tax.

                  c.  Imposition of Payment Cap.  If (i) the aggregate value of
all amounts and benefits to which Employee would be entitled under this
Agreement and any other plan, program or arrangement with PPD exceeds the amount
which can be paid to Employee without Employee incurring an Excise Tax and (ii)
Employee would receive a greater net after-tax amount (taking into account all
applicable taxes payable by Employee, including an Excise Tax) by applying the
limitation contained in this Section 2.05(c), then the amounts otherwise payable
to Employee under this Section 2 shall be reduced to an amount equal to the
Payment Cap.  If Employee receives reduced payments and benefits hereunder,
Employee shall have the right to designate which of the payments and benefits
otherwise provided for in this Agreement that Employee will receive in
connection with the application of the Payment Cap.

                  d.  Application of Code Section 280G.  The Executive
Consultant shall determine whether any part of the Covered Payment will be
subject to the Excise Tax and the amount of such Excise Tax. For purposes of
such determination, the Executive Consultant shall take into consideration and
be guided by the following:

                      (i)   such Covered Payment will be treated as Parachute
Payments and all Parachute Payments in excess of the Base Amount shall be
treated as subject to the Excise Tax, unless and except to the extent that in
the good faith judgment of the Executive Consultant, PPD has a reasonable basis
to conclude that such Covered Payment, in whole or in part, either do not
constitute Parachute Payments or represent reasonable compensation for personal
services actually rendered (within the meaning of

                                       4
<PAGE>

Section 280G of the Code) in excess of the Base Amount, or such Parachute
Payments are otherwise not subject to the Excise Tax, and

                         (ii)  the value of any noncash benefits or any deferred
payment or benefit shall be determined by the Executive Consultant in accordance
with the principles of Section 280G of the Code.

                  (e)    Applicable Tax Rates.  For purposes of determining
whether Employee would receive a greater net after-tax benefit if the amounts
payable under this Agreement are reduced in accordance with Section 2.05(c),
Employee shall be deemed to pay:

                         (i)   federal income taxes at the highest applicable
marginal rate of federal income taxation for the calendar year in which the
first amounts are to be paid hereunder, and

                         (ii)  any applicable state and local income taxes at
the highest applicable marginal rate of taxation for such calendar year, net of
the maximum reduction in federal income taxes which could be obtained from the
deduction of such state or local taxes if paid in such year;

provided, however, that Employee may request that such determination be made
based on Employee's individual tax circumstances, which shall govern such
determination so long as Employee provides to the Executive Consultant such
information and documents as the Executive Consultant shall reasonably request
to determine such individual circumstances.

                  (f)    Adjustments in Respect to Payment Cap.

                         (i)   If Employee receives reduced payments and
benefits under Section 2.05 or if Section 2.05 is determined not to be
applicable to Employee because the Executive Consultant concludes that Employee
is not subject to any Excise Tax, and it is established pursuant to a Final
Determination that, notwithstanding the good faith of Employee and PPD in
applying the terms of this Agreement, the aggregate Parachute Payments paid to
Employee or for Employee's benefit are in an amount that would result in
Employee being subject to an Excise Tax and Employee would still be subject to
the Payment Cap under the provisions of Section 2.05(c), then the amount in
excess of the Payment Cap shall be deemed for all purposes to be a loan to
Employee made on the date of the receipt of such excess payment, which Employee
shall have an obligation to repay to PPD on demand, together with interest at
the AFR, from the date of the payment hereunder to the date of repayment by
Employee.

                         (ii)  If Section 2.05 is not applied to reduce
Employee's entitlements under this Section 2 because the Executive Consultant
determines that Employee would not receive a greater net after-tax benefit by
applying Section 2.05 and it

                                       5
<PAGE>

is established pursuant to a Final Determination that, notwithstanding the good
faith of Employee and PPD in applying the terms of this Agreement, Employee
would have received a greater net after-tax benefit by subjecting Employee's
payments and benefits hereunder to the Payment Cap, then the aggregate Parachute
Payments paid to Employee or for Employee's benefit in excess of the Payment Cap
shall be deemed for all purposes a loan to Employee made on the date of receipt
of such excess payments, which Employee shall have an obligation to repay to PPD
on demand, together with interest at the AFR, from the date of payment hereunder
to the date of repayment by Employee.

                         (iii)  If Employee receives reduced payments and
benefits by reason of this Section 2.05 and it is established pursuant to a
Final Determination that Employee could have received a greater amount without
exceeding the Payment Cap, then PPD shall promptly thereafter pay Employee the
aggregate additional amount which could have been paid without exceeding the
Payment Cap, together with interest on such amount at the AFR, from the original
payment due date to the date of actual payment by PPD.

     3.   Miscellaneous.
          -------------

          3.01    Successor-in-Interest.  PPD will require any successor
(whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to
all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of PPD, to expressly
assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same
extent that PPD would be required to perform it if no succession had taken
place.

          3.02    Binding Effect.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of
and be enforceable by Employee's personal or legal representatives, executives,
administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees.

          3.03    Notice.  For purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other
communications provided for in the Agreement shall be in writing and shall be
given (i) by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, (ii) by
personal delivery or (iii) by recognized overnight carrier, and shall be deemed
received when actually received.  Notices shall be addressed as follows:

          If to PPD:        Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc.
                            3151 South 17/th/ Street
                            Wilmington, North Carolina  28412
                            Attention: Chief Executive Officer

          If to Employee:   ____________________________________________
                            ____________________________________________
                            ____________________________________________
                            ____________________________________________


                                       6
<PAGE>

Either party hereto may change the notice address by giving notice thereof in
the manner provided for herein.

          3.04    Waiver.  No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any
breach by the other party hereto of, or compliance with, any  provision or
condition of this Agreement to be performed by such other party shall be deemed
a subsequent waiver of the same or similar provisions or conditions.

          3.05    Entire Agreement.  No agreements or representations, oral or
otherwise, expressed or implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have
been made by either party which are not set forth expressly in this agreement,
and this Agreement supersedes and replaces in its entirety all prior agreements
and representations, expressed, implied,  oral or otherwise, made by PPD to or
with  Employee, including but not limited to that certain Severance Agreement
dated _______________ between PPD and Employee.

          3.06    Governing Law.  This Agreement shall be governed by and
interpreted under the laws of the State of North Carolina.

          3.07    Unenforceability.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of
any other provision of this Agreement.

          3.08    Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in one or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which
together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

          3.09    Headings.  Headings used in this Agreement are for convenience
only and shall not be used to construe or interpret this Agreement.

          3.10    Enforcement by Employee.  All legal expenses incurred by
Employee in the successful enforcement of any of the terms of this Agreement
shall be paid by PPD.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement effective the
date first hereinabove set forth.

Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc.          Employee


By: _________________________________             ________________________
Name:                                             Name:
Title:

                                       7
<PAGE>


                                Section 2.01 Base Salary &
     Employee                       Bonus Multiplier

Fredric N. Eshelman                      three
Fred B. Davenport, Jr.              two and one-half
Philippe M. Maitre                        two
Paul S. Covington                         two
Francis P. Casieri                        two
Karl Thor                                 two
Patrick C. O'Connor                       one
Davis R. Williams                         one
Linda Baddour                             one
Paul Ossi                               one-half
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.163
<SEQUENCE>12
<FILENAME>0012.txt
<DESCRIPTION>LOAN AGREEMENT DATED 1/24/2001
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.163

                                LOAN AGREEMENT

     THIS LOAN AGREEMENT dated as of January 24, 2001 (the "Loan Agreement" or
                                                            --------------
this "Agreement") is by and among SPOTLIGHT HEALTH, INC., a Delaware corporation
      ---------
(the "Borrower"), PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC., a North Carolina
      --------
corporation (the "Company"), and FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK (the "Bank").
                  -------                                        ----

                              W I T N E S S E T H

     WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested a $2 million revolving credit facility
for the purposes hereinafter set forth; and

     WHEREAS, the Bank has agreed to make the requested credit facility
available to the Borrower on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.

     NOW, THEREFORE, IN CONSIDERATION of the premises and other good and
valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:

     SECTION 1.  DEFINITIONS.

     "Bankruptcy Code" means the Bankruptcy Code in Title 11 of the United
      ---------------
States Code, as amended, modified, succeeded or replaced from time to time.

     "Business Day" means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on
      ------------
which commercial banks in Charlotte, North Carolina are authorized or required
by law to close; provided, however, that when used in connection with a rate
                 --------  -------
determination, borrowing or payment in respect of a LIBOR Rate Loan, the term
"Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks in London, England are
not open for dealings in U.S. dollar deposits in the London interbank market.

     "Closing Date" means the date hereof.
      ------------

     "Commitment Period" means the period from and including the date hereof to
      -----------------
but excluding the earlier of (i) the Termination Date, or (ii) the date on which
the commitments hereunder shall have been terminated in accordance with the
provisions hereof.

     "Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization Ratio" means, as of any day, the
      -----------------------------------------------
ratio of Consolidated Funded Debt to Consolidated Total Capitalization.

     "Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio" means, as of the last day of any
      ----------------------------------------
fiscal quarter for the Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the
ratio of Consolidated Income Available for Fixed Charges to Consolidated Fixed
Charges.

     "Consolidated Fixed Charges" means, for the applicable period for the
      --------------------------
Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of Consolidated
Interest Expense plus rental and lease expense, in each case as determined in
                 ----
accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis.  Except as expressly
provided otherwise, the applicable period shall be for the four consecutive
fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination.

     "Consolidated Funded Debt" means Funded Debt of the Company and its
      ------------------------
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP.
<PAGE>

     "Consolidated Income Available for Fixed Charges" means, for any period for
      -----------------------------------------------
the Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of
Consolidated Net Income plus Consolidated Interest Expense plus federal, state
                        ----                               ----
and local income taxes paid plus rental and lease expense, in each case
                            ----
determined in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis.  Except as
expressly provided otherwise, the applicable period shall be for the four
consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination.

     "Consolidated Interest Expense" means, for any period for the Company and
      -----------------------------
its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, all interest expense, including the
amortization of debt discount and premium, the interest component under capital
leases and the implied interest component under securitization transactions, in
each case determined in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis.
Except as expressly provided otherwise, the applicable period shall be for the
four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination.

     "Consolidated Net Income" means, for any period for the Company and its
      -----------------------
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, net income as determined in accordance
with GAAP applied on a consistent basis, but excluding for purposes of
determining the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio, (i) extraordinary gains or losses,
and any taxes on such excluded gains and any tax deductions or credits on
account of any such excluded losses, and (ii) one-time non-recurring charges
associated with mergers and acquisitions permitted hereunder.  Except as
expressly provided otherwise, the applicable period shall be for the four
consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination.

     "Consolidated Net Worth" means, on any day for the Company and its
      ----------------------
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, shareholders' equity as determined in
accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis.

     "Consolidated Tangible Net Worth" means, on any day Consolidated Net Worth
      -------------------------------
minus the aggregate amount of goodwill, franchises, licenses, patents,
- -----
trademarks, trade names, copyrights, service marks, brand names, organizational
and developmental expenses, covenants not to compete and other intangible
assets, in each case as determined in accordance with GAAP applied on a
consistent basis.  For purposes hereof, Consolidated Tangible Net Worth shall
not include that certain seller financing promissory note from certain members
of the prior management of APBI Environmental Sciences Group, Inc. in favor of
the Company in an aggregate principal amount of up to $18,000,000 in connection
with the sale of APBI Environmental Sciences Group, Inc. ("APBI").
                                                           ----

     "Consolidated Total Capitalization" means, on any day for the Company and
      ---------------------------------
its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of Consolidated Funded Debt
plus Consolidated Net Worth.
- ----

     "Credit Documents" means, collectively, this Agreement and the Note.
      ----------------

     "Credit Parties" means the Borrower and the Guarantors.
      --------------

     "Eurodollar Reserve Percentage" means for any day, the percentage
      -----------------------------
(expressed as a decimal and rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next higher
1/100th of 1%) which is in effect for such day as prescribed by the Federal
Reserve Board (or any successor) for determining the maximum reserve requirement
(including without limitation any basic, supplemental or emergency reserves) in
respect of Eurocurrency liabilities, as defined in Regulation D of such Board as
in effect from time to time, or any similar category of liabilities for a member
bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City.

                                       2
<PAGE>

     "Funded Debt" means, as of any day for any Person, without duplication, (i)
      ------------
all indebtedness for borrowed money, (ii) all indebtedness and obligations
evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (iii) all
obligations to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services (other
than trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business), (iv)
all obligations as lessee under capital leases, (v) all obligations of
reimbursement relating to letters of credit, bankers' acceptances or other
similar instruments (whether or not then drawn and owing), (vi) all Guaranty
Obligations, (vii) the attributed principal amount of any securitization
transaction and (viii) all obligations under any synthetic lease, tax retention
operating lease, off-balance sheet loan or other similar off-balance sheet
financing product where the product is considered borrowed money indebtedness
for tax purposes, but is classified as an operating lease for purposes of GAAP.

     "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States
      ----
applied on a consistent basis.

     "Governmental Authority" means any federal, state, local or foreign court
      ----------------------
or governmental agency, authority, instrumentality or regulatory body.

     "Guaranteed Obligations" means:
      ----------------------

          (a)  all unpaid principal of and interest on (including, without
     limitation, interest accruing at the then applicable rate provided in this
     Agreement after the maturity of the Loans and other obligations owing under
     this Agreement and interest accruing at the then applicable rate provided
     in this Agreement after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy, or the
     commencement of any insolvency, reorganization or like proceeding, relating
     to the Borrower, whether or not a claim for post-filing or post-petition
     interest is allowed in such proceeding) the Loans and all other obligations
     and liabilities of the Borrower to the Bank, whether direct or indirect,
     absolute or contingent, due or to become due, or now existing or hereafter
     incurred, which may arise under, out of, or in connection with, this
     Agreement, the Note or any other document relating hereto, in each case
     whether on account of principal, interest, reimbursement obligations, fees,
     indemnities, costs, expenses or otherwise (including, without limitation,
     all fees and disbursements of counsel to the Bank that are required to be
     paid by the Borrower pursuant to the terms of this Agreement); and

          (b)  all other indebtedness, liabilities and obligations of any kind
     or nature, now existing or hereafter arising, owing by the Borrower to the
     Bank, arising under any interest rate protection agreement, currency
     agreement or other agreement or arrangement, whether primary, secondary,
     direct, contingent, or joint and several.

     "Guarantors" means the Company and any other Person that hereafter provides
      ----------
a guaranty of the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement and the other
Credit Documents pursuant to an agreement in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank, in each together with its successors and assigns.

     "Guaranty Obligation" means any obligation, contingent or otherwise,
      -------------------
directly or indirectly guaranteeing the indebtedness or other obligation of
another Person, including without limitation, (i) an agreement to purchase or
pay (or to supply or advance funds for the purchase or payment of) any such
indebtedness or other obligation (whether by way of partnership agreement, keep-
well agreement, comfort letter, maintenance agreement or the like), or (ii) any
arrangement entered into for the purpose of assuring payment of the indebtedness
or other obligation of another Person or otherwise protecting a party from loss
in respect thereof; provided that such term shall not include endorsements for
                    --------
collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.

                                       3
<PAGE>

     "Interest Payment Date" means the last Business Day of each March, June,
      ---------------------
September and December.

     "LIBOR" shall mean, for any day, the rate for one month U.S. Dollar
      -----
deposits as reported on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 A.M. (London time), on
such day, or if such day is not a Business Day, then the immediately preceding
Business Day (or if not so reported), then as determined by the Bank from
another recognized source of interbank quotation.

     "LIBOR Rate" means a rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the
      ----------
next higher 1/100th of 1%) determined by the Bank pursuant to the following
formula:

          LIBOR Rate =                  LIBOR
                           ---------------------------------------
                           1.00 - Eurodollar Reserve Percentage

     "LIBOR Rate Loan" means Loans hereunder bearing interest at a rate
      ---------------
determined by reference to the LIBOR Rate.

     "Lien" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, security
      ----
interest, encumbrance, lien, preference or priority of any kind.

     "Loan" or "loan" shall mean revolving loans under Section 2.1 hereof.
      ----      ----

     "Maturity Date" means July 15, 2001, or such later date as to which the
      -------------
Bank may agree in its sole discretion.

     "Person" means any individual, partnership, joint venture, firm,
      ------
corporation, limited liability company, association, trust or other enterprise
(whether or not incorporated) or any Governmental Authority.

     "PPD Loan Agreement" means that Loan Agreement dated as of June 25, 1997
      ------------------
among the Company, the Guarantors identified therein and the Bank, as amended,
modified, extended, renewed or replaced.

     "Prime Loan" means Loans hereunder bearing interest at a rate determined by
      ----------
reference to the Prime Rate.

     "Prime Rate" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from
      ----------
time to time by the Bank as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in
Charlotte, North Carolina, with each change in the Prime Rate being effective on
the date such change is publicly announced as effective (it being understood and
agreed that the Prime Rate is a reference rate used by the Bank in determining
interest rates on certain loans and is not intended to be the lowest rate of
interest charged on any extension of credit by the Bank to any debtor).

     "Requirement of Law" means, as to any Person, the certificate of
      ------------------
incorporation and by-laws or other organizational or governing documents of such
Person, and any law, treaty, rule or regulation or determination of an
arbitrator or a court or other Governmental Authority, in each case applicable
or any of its material property is subject.

     "Termination Date" means June 30, 2001, or such later date as to which
      ----------------
the Bank may agree in its sole discretion.

                                       4
<PAGE>

     SECTION 2.  LOANS.

     2.1  Loans.  During the Commitment Period, subject to the terms and
          -----
conditions hereof, the Bank agrees to make revolving loans to the Borrower upon
request in an aggregate principal amount of up to TWO MILLION DOLLARS
($2,000,000) at any time outstanding. The loans hereunder may consist of Prime
Loans or LIBOR Rate Loans, or a combination thereof. The obligation of the Bank
to make any Loan is subject to the condition that the Representations and
Warranties set forth in Section 5 hereof are true and correct in all material
respects as of the date that such Loan is to be made.

     2.2  Notices.  Requests by the Borrower for Loans hereunder shall be made
          -------
by written notice (or telephone notice promptly confirmed in writing) to the
Bank by 12:00 Noon Charlotte, North Carolina time on the Business Day of the
requested borrowing. Each request shall (a) be in a minimum principal amount of
$100,000 and integral multiples of $100,000 in excess thereof and (b) specify
the date of the requested borrowing, the aggregate amount to be borrowed, and
whether the borrowing shall consist of LIBOR Rate Loans, Prime Loans or
combination thereof. If the Borrower shall fail to specify the type of Loan
requested for a borrowing, the request shall be deemed a request for a LIBOR
Rate Loan. Each request for a Loan hereunder shall be deemed a reaffirmation
that the Representations and Warranties set forth herein are true and correct in
all material respects as of such date.

     2.3  Interest Rate.  Loans outstanding hereunder shall bear interest at a
          -------------
per annum rate equal to (i) the LIBOR Rate plus sixty-five basis points
                                      ----
(0.65%) or (ii) the Prime Rate, as the Borrower may elect; provided that after
                                                           --------
the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the principal
and, to the extent permitted by law, interest on the Loans and any other amounts
owing hereunder shall bear interest, payable on demand, at a rate equal to the
Prime Rate plus two percent (2%). Interest will be payable in arrears on each
           ----
Interest Payment Date.

     2.4  Repayment.  Unless sooner paid, the Loans shall be due and payable in
          ---------
full on the Maturity Date.

     2.5  Note.  The Loans shall be evidenced by a promissory note of the
          ----
Borrower dated as of the Closing Date, in the form of Annex A hereto (as
                                                      -------
amended, modified, extended, renewed or replaced, the "Note").
                                                       ----

     2.6  Fees.  In consideration of the commitments hereunder, the Borrower
          ----
agrees to pay to the Bank a facility fee (the "Facility Fee") equal to ten basis
                                               ------------
points (0.10%) per annum on the average daily unused portion of the commitment
for the applicable period. The Facility Fee shall be payable quarterly in
arrears on the 15th day following the last day of each calendar quarter for the
immediately preceding quarter (or portion thereof) beginning with the first such
date to occur after the date hereof.

     2.7  Prepayments. The Loans may be prepaid in whole or in part without
          -----------
premium or penalty. Amounts prepaid may, subject to the terms and conditions
hereof, be reborrowed.

     2.8  Capital Adequacy. If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that
          ----------------
the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law regarding capital
adequacy or in the interpretation or application thereof as a consequence of its
obligations hereunder or compliance by the Bank or any corporation controlling
the Bank with any request or directive regarding capital adequacy (whether or
not having the force of law) from any central bank or Governmental Authority
made subsequent to the date hereof as a consequence of its obligations hereunder
does or shall have the effect of reducing the rate of return on the Bank's or
such corporation's capital as a consequence of its obligations hereunder to a
level below that which the Bank or such corporation could have achieved but for
such adoption, change or compliance

                                       5
<PAGE>

(taking into consideration the Bank's or such corporation's policies with
respect to capital adequacy) by an amount reasonably deemed by the Bank to be
material, then from time to time, within 15 days after demand by the Bank, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank such additional amount as shall be certified by
the Bank as being required to compensate it for such reduction. Such a
certificate as to any additional amounts payable under this subsection submitted
by the Bank (which certificate shall include a description in reasonable detail
of the basis for the computation) to the Borrower shall be conclusive absent
manifest error.

     2.9  Inability to Determine Interest Rate.  Notwithstanding any other
          ------------------------------------
provision of this Agreement, if (i) the Bank shall reasonably determine (which
determination shall be conclusive and binding absent manifest error) that, by
reason of circumstances affecting the relevant market, reasonable and adequate
means do not exist for ascertaining the LIBOR Rate, or (ii) the Bank shall
reasonably determine (which determination shall be conclusive and binding absent
manifest error) that the LIBOR Rate does not adequately and fairly reflect the
cost of funding LIBOR Rate Loans, the Bank shall forthwith give telephone notice
of such determination, confirmed in writing, to the Borrower, and thereafter the
right to request and continue Loans as LIBOR Rate Loans shall be suspended until
such time as the conditions giving rise to such notice shall no longer exist.
In the event LIBOR Rate Loans are not available on account of operation of this
Section, the Bank will endeavor to provide an alternative index or reference
rate.

     2.10 Illegality.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if
          ----------
the adoption of or any change in any Requirement of Law or in the interpretation
or application thereof, in each case occurring after the Closing Date, by the
relevant Governmental Authority shall make it unlawful for the Bank to make or
maintain LIBOR Rate Loans as contemplated by this Agreement or to obtain in the
interbank eurodollar market through its LIBOR Lending Office the funds with
which to make such Loans, (a) the Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower
thereof, (b) the commitment of the Bank hereunder to make LIBOR Rate Loans or
continue LIBOR Rate Loans as such shall forthwith be suspended until the Bank
shall give notice that the condition or situation which gave rise to the
suspension shall no longer exist, and (c) Loans then outstanding as LIBOR Rate
Loans, if any, shall be converted to Prime Loans. The Borrower hereby agrees
promptly to pay the Bank, upon its demand, any additional amounts necessary to
compensate the Bank for actual and direct costs (but not including anticipated
profits) reasonably incurred in making any repayment in accordance with this
subsection including, but not limited to, any interest or fees payable by the
Bank to lenders of funds obtained by it in order to make or maintain its LIBOR
Rate Loans hereunder. A certificate as to any additional amounts payable
pursuant to this subsection submitted by the Bank, to the Borrower shall be
conclusive in the absence of manifest error.

     2.11 Requirements of Law.  If the adoption of or any change in any
          -------------------
Requirement of Law or in the interpretation or application thereof or compliance
by the Bank with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of
law) from any central bank or other Governmental Authority, in each case made
subsequent to the date hereof:

          (i)    shall subject the Bank to any tax of any kind whatsoever with
     respect to any LIBOR Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation
     of payments to the Bank in respect thereof (except for changes in the rate
     of tax on the net income or franchise tax applicable to the Bank);

          (ii)   shall impose, modify or hold applicable any reserve, special
     deposit, compulsory loan or similar requirement against assets held by,
     deposits or other liabilities in or for the account of, advances, loans or
     other extensions of credit by, or any other acquisition of funds by,

                                       6
<PAGE>

     any office of the Bank which is not otherwise included in the determination
     of the LIBOR Rate hereunder; or

          (iii)  shall impose on the Bank any other condition (excluding any tax
     of any kind whatsoever);

and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to the Bank of
making or maintaining LIBOR Loans or to reduce any amount receivable hereunder
or under the Note, then, in any such case, the Borrower shall promptly pay the
Bank, within 15 days after its demand, any additional amounts necessary to
compensate the Bank for such additional cost or reduced amount receivable as
determined by the Bank with respect to its LIBOR Rate Loans.  A certificate as
to any additional amounts payable pursuant to this subsection submitted by the
Bank, describing in reasonable detail the nature of such event and a reasonably
detailed explanation of the calculation thereof, to the Borrower shall be
conclusive in the absence of manifest error.

     2.12 Taxes.  All payments made by the Borrower hereunder or under any
          -----
Note will be made free and clear of, and without deduction or withholding for,
any present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, fees, assessments or other
charges of whatever nature now or hereafter imposed by any Governmental
Authority or by any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein
with respect to such payments (but excluding (i) any tax imposed on or measured
by the net income or profits of a Lender pursuant to the laws of the
jurisdiction in which it is organized or the jurisdiction in which the principal
office or applicable lending office of the Bank is located or any subdivision
thereof or therein and (ii) any franchise taxes, branch taxes, taxes on doing
business or taxes on the overall capital or net worth of the Bank pursuant to
the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is organized or the jurisdiction in
which the principal office or its applicable lending office is located or any
subdivision thereof or therein) and all interest, penalties or similar
liabilities with respect thereto (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts,
duties, fees, assessments or other charges being referred to collectively as
"Taxes").  If any Taxes are so levied or imposed, the Borrower agrees to pay the
 -----
full amount of such Taxes, and such additional amounts as may be necessary so
that every payment of all amounts due under this Agreement or under any Note,
after withholding or deduction for or on account of any such Taxes, will not be
less than the amount provided for herein or in such Note.  The Borrower will
furnish to the Bank as soon as practicable after the date the payment of any
Taxes is due pursuant to applicable law certified copies (to the extent
reasonably available and required by law) of tax receipts evidencing such
payment by the Borrower. The Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless, and
reimburse, the Bank upon its written request, for the amount of any Taxes so
levied or imposed and paid by the Bank.  The agreements in this subsection shall
survive termination of this Agreement and payment of the Notes and all other
amounts payable hereunder.

     2.13 Payments and Computations.  Payments shall be made hereunder in
          -------------------------
U.S. dollars in immediately available funds, without offset, deduction,
counterclaim or withholding of any kind at the offices of the Bank provided in
the notice section hereof.  Payments received after 2:00 P.M. (Charlotte, North
Carolina time) will be given credit the next following Business Day.
Computations of interest hereunder shall be made on the basis of actual number
of days elapsed over a year of 360 days.

     SECTION 3.  GUARANTY

     3.1  Guaranty.   Each of the Guarantors hereby jointly and severally
          --------
guarantees to the Bank as hereinafter provided the prompt payment of the
Guaranteed Obligations in full when due (whether at stated maturity, as a
mandatory prepayment, by acceleration or otherwise and after giving effect to
any grace periods) strictly in accordance with the terms hereof.  Each of the
Guarantors hereby further agrees that if any of the Guaranteed Obligations are
not paid in full when due (whether at stated maturity, as a mandatory

                                       7
<PAGE>

prepayment, by acceleration or otherwise and after giving effect to any grace
periods), the Guarantor will promptly pay the same, without any demand or notice
whatsoever, and that in the case of any extension of time of payment or renewal
of any of the Guaranteed Obligations, the same will be promptly paid in full
when due (whether at extended maturity, as a mandatory prepayment, by
acceleration or otherwise and after giving effect to any grace periods) in
accordance with the terms of such extension or renewal.  This is a guaranty of
payment and not of collection.

     Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein or in any
other of the Credit Documents, to the extent the obligations of any Guarantor as
guarantor hereunder shall be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable for any
reason (including, without limitation, because of any applicable state or
federal law relating to fraudulent conveyances or transfers) then the
obligations of such Guarantor hereunder shall be limited to the maximum amount
that is permissible under applicable law (whether federal or state and
including, without limitation, the Bankruptcy Code).

     3.2  Obligations Unconditional.  The obligations of the Guarantors
          -------------------------
under Section 3.1 hereof are absolute and unconditional, irrespective of the
value, genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of this Agreement or
the Note, or any other agreement or instrument referred to herein or therein or
relating hereto or thereto, or any substitution, release or exchange of any
other guarantee of or security for any of the Guaranteed Obligations, and, to
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, irrespective of any other
circumstance whatsoever which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable
discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor, it being the intent of this
Section 3.2 that the obligations of the Guarantors hereunder shall be absolute
and unconditional under any and all circumstances.  Each of the Guarantors
agrees that it shall have no right of subrogation, indemnity, reimbursement or
contribution against the Borrower or any other guarantor for amounts paid under
this Guaranty until such time as the Bank has been paid in full, all
commitments, if any, have been terminated and no Person or Governmental
Authority shall have any right to request any return or reimbursement of funds
from the Bank in connection with monies received under the Credit Documents.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it is agreed that, to the
fullest extent permitted by law, the occurrence of any one or more of the
following shall not alter or impair the liability of the Guarantors hereunder
which shall remain absolute and unconditional as described above:

          (i)    at any time or from time to time, without notice to the
     Guarantors, the time for any performance of or compliance with any of the
     Guaranteed Obligations shall be extended, or such performance or compliance
     shall be waived;

          (ii)   any of the acts mentioned in any of the provisions of this
     Agreement or the Note or any other agreement or instrument referred to
     herein or therein or relating hereto or thereto shall be done or omitted;

          (iii)  the maturity of any of the Guaranteed Obligations shall be
     accelerated, or any of the Guaranteed Obligations shall be modified,
     supplemented or amended in any respect, or any right under any of the
     Credit Documents or any other agreement or instrument referred to in the
     Credit Documents shall be waived or any other guarantee of any of the
     Guaranteed Obligations or any security therefor shall be released or
     exchanged in whole or in part or otherwise dealt with;

          (iv)   any Lien granted to, or in favor of, the Bank as security for
     any of the Guaranteed Obligations shall fail to attach or be perfected or
     shall be released or discharged in whole or in part; or

          (v)    any of the Guaranteed Obligations shall be determined to be
     void or voidable (including, without limitation, for the benefit of any
     creditor of any Guarantor or any other

                                       8
<PAGE>

     guarantor) or shall be subordinated to the claims of any Person (including,
     without limitation, any creditor of any guarantor).

With respect to its obligations hereunder, each of the Guarantors hereby
expressly waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, protest and all
notices whatsoever, and any requirement that the Bank exhaust any right, power
or remedy or proceed against any Person under this Agreement or the Note or any
other agreement or instrument referred to herein or therein or relating hereto
or thereto, or against any other Person under any other guarantee of, or
security for, any of the Guaranteed Obligations.

     3.3  Reinstatement.  The obligations of the Guarantors under this Section 3
          -------------
shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any
payment by or on behalf of any Person in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations
is rescinded or must be otherwise restored by any holder of any of the
Guaranteed Obligations, whether as a result of any proceedings in bankruptcy or
reorganization or otherwise, and each of the Guarantors agrees that it will
indemnify the Bank on demand for all reasonable costs and expenses (including,
without limitation, fees and expenses of counsel) incurred by the Bank in
connection with such rescission or restoration, including any such costs and
expenses incurred in defending against any claim alleging that such payment
constituted a preference, fraudulent transfer or similar payment under any
bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law.

     3.4  Certain Additional Waivers.  Without limiting the generality of the
          --------------------------
provisions of this Section 3, each of the Guarantors hereby specifically waives
the benefits of N.C. Gen. Stat. Sec. 26-7 through 26-9, inclusive. Each of the
Guarantors agrees that it shall have no right of recourse to security for the
Guaranteed Obligations, except through the exercise of the rights of subrogation
pursuant to Section 3.2.

     3.5  Remedies.  Each of the Guarantors agrees that, to the fullest extent
          --------
permitted by law, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Bank, on
the other hand, the Guaranteed Obligations may be declared to be forthwith due
and payable as provided in Section 7.2 hereof (and shall be deemed to have
become automatically due and payable in the circumstances provided in said
Section 7.2) for purposes of Section 3.1 hereof notwithstanding any stay,
injunction or other prohibition preventing such declaration (or preventing the
Guaranteed Obligations from becoming automatically due and payable) as against
any other Person and that, in the event of such declaration (or the Guaranteed
Obligations being deemed to have become automatically due and payable), the
Guaranteed Obligations (whether or not due and payable by any other Person)
shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for purposes of said
Section 3.1.

     3.6  Continuing Guarantee.  The guarantee in this Section 3 is a
          --------------------
continuing guarantee, and shall apply to all Guaranteed Obligations whenever
arising.

     3.7  Rights of Contribution.  The Guarantors hereby agree, as among
          ----------------------
themselves, that if any Guarantor shall become an Excess Funding Guarantor (as
defined below), each other Guarantor shall, on demand of such Excess Funding
Guarantor (but subject to the succeeding provisions of this Section), pay to
such Excess Funding Guarantor an amount equal to such Guarantor's Pro Rata Share
(as defined below and determined, for this purpose, without reference to the
properties, assets, liabilities and debts of such Excess Funding Guarantor) of
such Excess Payment (as defined below).  The payment obligation of any Guarantor
to any Excess Funding Guarantor under this Section shall be subordinate and
subject in right of payment to the prior payment in full of the obligations of
such Guarantor under the other provisions of this Section 3, and such Excess
Funding Guarantor shall not exercise any right or remedy with respect to such
excess until payment and satisfaction in full of all of such obligations.  For
purposes hereof, (i) "Excess Funding Guarantor" shall mean, in respect of any
                      ------------------------
obligations arising under the other provisions of this Section 3 (hereafter, the
"Guarantied Obligations"), a Guarantor that has paid an amount in excess of its
 ----------------------
Pro Rata Share of the Guarantied Obligations; (ii) "Excess Payment" shall mean,
                                                    --------------
in respect of any Guarantied Obligations, the amount paid by an Excess Funding
Guarantor in excess of its Pro Rata Share of such

                                       9
<PAGE>

Guarantied Obligations; and (iii) "Pro Rata Share", for the purposes of this
Section, shall mean, for any Guarantor, the ratio (expressed as a percentage) of
(a) the amount by which the aggregate present fair saleable value of all of its
assets and properties exceeds the amount of all debts and liabilities of such
Guarantor (including contingent, subordinated, unmatured, and unliquidated
liabilities, but excluding the obligations of such Guarantor hereunder) to (b)
the amount by which the aggregate present fair saleable value of all assets and
other properties of the Borrower and all of the Guarantors exceeds the amount of
all of the debts and liabilities (including contingent, subordinated, unmatured,
and unliquidated liabilities, but excluding the obligations of the Borrower and
the Guarantors hereunder) of the Borrower and all of the Guarantors, all as of
the Closing Date (if any Guarantor becomes a party hereto subsequent to the
Closing Date, then for the purposes of this Section such subsequent Guarantor
shall be deemed to have been a Guarantor as of the Closing Date and the
information pertaining to, and only pertaining to, such Guarantor as of the date
such Guarantor became a Guarantor shall be deemed true as of the Closing Date).

     SECTION 4  CONDITIONS TO CLOSING

     4.1  Conditions.  The effectiveness of this Agreement and extension of
          ----------
the Loans hereunder are conditioned upon satisfaction of the following:

     (a)  Receipt of multiple executed counterparts of this Agreement and the
     Note, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

     (b)  Receipt of opinions of the general counsel for the Borrower and the
     Guarantors in the form attached as Annex B hereto.
                                        -------

     (c)  Receipt of corporate documentation for the Credit Parties, including
     resolutions, bylaws, articles of incorporation, certificates of good
     standing and certificates of incumbency.

     SECTION 5 REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

     5.1  Financial Condition.  The consolidated balance sheet of the Company
          -------------------
and its consolidated subsidiaries dated as of September 30, 2000, together with
related consolidated statements of income and cash flows, is complete and
correct in all material respects and presents fairly the financial condition and
results from operations of the entities and for the periods specified, subject
in the case of interim company-prepared statements to normal year-end
adjustments.

     5.2  No Change.  Since the date of the financial statements identified in
          ---------
Section 5.1, there have been no developments or events which have had, or are
likely to have, a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or
otherwise), operations, business or prospects of the Company and its
subsidiaries taken as a whole. There have been no developments or events that
have had, or are likely to have, a material adverse effect on the condition
(financial or otherwise), operations, business or prospects of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries taken as a whole.

     5.3  Corporate Organization. Each of the Credit Parties is a corporation
          ----------------------
duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the
State of its incorporation, is qualified to do business in each jurisdiction
where failure to so qualify would have a material adverse effect on the Borrower
and its subsidiaries taken as a whole and is in compliance with all Requirements
of Law except to the extent that failure to be in compliance would not have a
material adverse effect on the Borrower and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.

     5.4  Enforceable Obligation.  Each of the Credit Parties has the power and
          ----------------------
authority and legal right to enter into, deliver and perform under this
Agreement and has taken all necessary action to

                                       10
<PAGE>

authorize the execution, delivery and performance by them of this Agreement.
This Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of each of the
Credit Parties enforceable against them in accordance with its terms except as
enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of
creditors' rights generally or by general equitable principles (whether
enforcement is sought by proceedings in equity or at law).

     5.5  Legal Proceedings.  No claim, litigation or proceeding before any
          -----------------
arbitrator or Governmental Authority is pending, or to the knowledge of the
Credit Parties, threatened which if adversely determined would reasonably be
expected to have a material adverse effect on the Borrower and its subsidiaries
taken as a whole.

     5.6  No Default.  No Event of Default or event or condition which with
          ----------
notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default,
presently exists.

     5.7  Federal Regulations.  No part of the proceeds of the Loans hereunder
          -------------------
will be used, directly or indirectly, for any purpose in violation of Regulation
U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as amended, modified
or replaced.

     SECTION 6 COVENANTS

     The Borrower and the Guarantors covenant and agree to:

     6.1  Financial Statements.  Furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Bank:
          --------------------

          (a)  Annual Audited Statements.  As soon as available, but in any
               -------------------------
     event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, (i) audited
     consolidated and company-prepared consolidating balance sheets of the
     Borrower and its subsidiaries and related audited consolidated and company-
     prepared consolidating statements of income, retained earnings and cash
     flows, and (ii) audited consolidated and company-prepared consolidating
     balance sheets of the Company and its subsidiaries and related audited
     consolidated and company-prepared consolidating statements of income,
     retained earnings and cash flows, in each case audited by Pricewaterhouse
     Coopers, or other independent public accounting firm reasonably acceptable
     to the Bank, setting forth comparative information for the previous year,
     and reported without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception,
     or qualification indicating limitation of the scope of the audit; and

          (b)  Quarterly Statements.  As soon as available, and in any event
               --------------------
     within 45 days after the end of each fiscal quarter, (i) a company-prepared
     consolidated and consolidating balance sheet of the Borrower and its
     subsidiaries and related company-prepared consolidated and consolidating
     statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for the quarter and
     for the portion of the year with comparative information for the
     corresponding periods for the previous year and (ii) a company-prepared
     consolidated and consolidating balance sheet of the Company and its
     subsidiaries and related company-prepared consolidated and consolidating
     statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for the quarter and
     for the portion of the year with comparative information for the
     corresponding periods for the previous year.

All such financial statements to be complete and correct in all material
respects (subject, in the case of interim statements, to normal recurring year-
end audit adjustments) and to be prepared in reasonable detail and in accordance
with GAAP throughout the periods reflected therein (except as approved by such
accountants and disclosed therein) and further accompanied by a description of,
and an estimation of the effect on the financial statements on account of, a
change in the application of accounting principles from a prior period.

                                       11
<PAGE>

          (c)  Other Information.  Promptly upon request, such additional
               -----------------
     financial and other information as the Bank may reasonably request from
     time to time.

     6.2  Certificates and Notices.  Furnish, or cause to be furnished, and give
          ------------------------
     notice to the Bank:

          (a)  Officer's Certificate.
               ---------------------

               (i)  Concurrently with the annual and quarterly financial
          statements of the Borrower and its subsidiaries referenced in Section
          6.1 above, a certificate of a responsible officer of the Borrower
          stating that to the best of his knowledge and belief, (A) the
          financial statements fairly present in all material respects the
          financial condition of the parties to which such statements relate and
          (B) the Borrower and the Guarantors are in compliance with the
          provisions of this Agreement in all material respects and no Event of
          Default, or event or condition which with notice or lapse of time, or
          both, would constitute an Event of Default exists hereunder, and

               (ii) Concurrently with the annual and quarterly financial
          statements of the Company and its subsidiaries referenced in Section
          6.1 above, a certificate of a responsible officer of the Company
          stating that to the best of his knowledge and belief, (A) the
          financial statements fairly present in all material respects the
          financial condition of the parties to which such statements relate and
          (B) the Borrower and the Guarantors are in compliance with the
          provisions of this Agreement in all material respects and no Event of
          Default, or event or condition which with notice or lapse of time, or
          both, would constitute an Event of Default exists hereunder (together
          with a financial covenant calculation worksheet demonstrating
          compliance therewith in reasonable detail).

          (b)  Public and Other Information.  Copies of reports and information
               ----------------------------
     which the Borrower or its subsidiaries, or the Company or its subsidiaries,
     sends to its stockholders or files with the Securities and Exchange
     Commission, and any other financial or other information as the Bank may
     reasonably request.

          (c)  Notice of Default.  Promptly, upon becoming aware thereof,
               -----------------
     notice of the occurrence of an Event of Default hereunder.

     6.3  Compliance with Laws.  Comply will all Requirements of Law applicable
          --------------------
to them except to the extent that failure to comply therewith would not have a
material adverse effect on the Borrower and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.

     6.4  Books and Records.  The Credit Parties will keep proper books and
          -----------------
records in conformity with GAAP and all Requirements of Law and permit the Bank
upon reasonable notice to visit and inspect such books and records.

     6.5  Financial Covenants.  The Company will comply with the following
          -------------------
financial covenants:

          (a)  Consolidated Tangible Net Worth.  Consolidated Tangible Net
               -------------------------------
     Worth shall not at any time be less than the sum of $75 million plus at the
                                                                     ----
     end of each fiscal quarter occurring after March 31, 1997, 50% of
     Consolidated Net Income (but not less than zero) for the fiscal quarter
     then ended, such increases to be cumulative.

                                       12
<PAGE>

     (b)  Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio.  As of the last day of each
          ----------------------------------------
     fiscal quarter, the Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio shall be not
     less than 2.0:1.0.

     (c)  Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization Ratio.  The Consolidated
          -----------------------------------------------
     Debt to Total Capitalization Ratio shall not at any time be greater than
     0.45:1.0.

     6.6  Incurrence of Funded Debt.  The Borrower will not, nor will it permit
          -------------------------
any of its subsidiaries to, create, assume, incur or suffer to exist any Funded
Debt except:

          (a)  Funded Debt arising or existing under this Loan Agreement and the
     other Credit Documents; and

          (b)  capital lease obligations and other Funded Debt incurred to
     provide all or a portion of the purchase price or cost of construction of
     an asset, provided that (i) such Debt when incurred will not exceed the
               --------
     purchase price or cost of construction of the asset, (ii) no such Debt
     shall be refinanced for a principal amount in excess of the principal
     balance outstanding thereon at the time of such refinancing, and (iii) the
     aggregate principal amount of such Debt shall not exceed $1,000,000 at any
     time outstanding.

     6.7  Restriction on Liens.  The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any
          --------------------
of its subsidiaries to, create, assume, incur or suffer to exist any Lien on any
property or asset of any kind, real or personal, tangible or intangible, now
owned or hereafter acquired by it or assign or subordinate any present or future
right to receive assets except:

          (a)  Liens securing capital lease obligations and other purchase money
     Funded Debt permitted under Section 6.6(a);

          (b)  Liens securing taxes, assessments or governmental charges or
     levies or the claims or demands of materialmen, mechanics, carriers,
     warehousemen, landlords and other like persons; provided that (A) with
                                                     --------
     respect to Liens securing state and local taxes, such taxes are not yet
     payable, (b) with respect to Liens securing claims or demands of
     materialmen, mechanics, carriers, warehousemen, landlords and the like,
     such liens are unfiled and no other action has been taken to enforce the
     same, or (C) with respect to taxes, assessments or governmental charges or
     levies or claims or demand secured by such Liens, payment is not at the
     time required;

          (c)  Liens not securing indebtedness which are incurred in the
     ordinary course of business in connection with workmen's compensation,
     unemployment insurance, unemployment insurance, social security and other
     like laws;

          (d)  any Lien arising pursuant to any order of attachment, distraint
     or similar legal process arising in connection with court proceedings so
     long as the execution or other enforcement thereof is effectively stayed
     and the claims secured thereto are being contested in good faith by
     appropriate proceedings; and

          (e)  zoning restrictions, easements, licenses, reservations,
     covenants, conditions, waivers, restrictions on the use of property or
     other minor encumbrances or irregularities of title which do not materially
     impair the use of any property in the operation or business of the Borrower
     or such subsidiary or the value of such property for the purpose of such
     business.

                                       13
<PAGE>

     6.8  Mergers and Acquisitions.  The Borrower will not, nor will it permit
          ------------------------
any of its subsidiaries to, enter into a transaction of merger or consolidation,
nor will it acquire all or substantially all of the capital stock (or other
equity interest) or assets of any other Person.

     6.9  Investments.  The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any of its
          -----------
subsidiaries to, make loans or advances or otherwise make an investment in or
capital contribution to (collectively, an "Investment") any Person, except:
                                           ----------

          (a)  cash and cash equivalents and other publicly traded equity and
     debt instruments reasonably acceptable to the Bank;

          (b)  loans and advances to officers, directors, employees and
     shareholders not to exceed $250,000;

          (c)  Investments in and to a Credit Party; and

          (d)  other Investments in an aggregate principal amount (on a cost
     basis) at any time of up to $1,000,000.

     SECTION 7 EVENTS OF DEFAULT

     7.1  Event of Default. Each of the following shall constitute an "Event of
          ----------------                                             --------
Default" hereunder:  (i) the failure to make any payment of principal, interest,
- -------
fees or other amounts owing hereunder when due, (ii) any representation or
warranty made herein or in connection herewith shall prove to be false or
incorrect in any material respect, (iii) failure to observe or comply with any
covenants or provisions contained herein, (iv), the occurrence and continuance
of an event of default under any other note or agreement relating to
indebtedness for borrowed money owing by the Borrower or any Guarantor which
results in, or would permit, acceleration of such indebtedness, or would
otherwise cause such indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity,
(v) the occurrence of an Event of Default (as defined in the PPD Loan Agreement)
under the PPD Loan Agreement; (vi) the filing of an action in bankruptcy or
insolvency by the Borrower or any Guarantor, (vii) the filing of an action in
bankruptcy or insolvency against the Borrower or any Guarantor and (viii) the
Borrower or any Guarantor shall fail within 30 days of the due date to pay bond
or otherwise discharge any judgment, settlement or order.

     7.2  Remedies.  Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, and at any time
          --------
thereafter, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower (i) terminate the commitments
hereunder and declare the unpaid principal of, and any accrued interest owing
on, the Loans and all other indebtedness or obligations owing hereunder or under
any of the other Credit Documents or in connection herewith or therewith,
immediately due and payable, whereupon the same shall be immediately due and
payable without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of
which are hereby waived by the Borrower, and (ii) enforce any other rights and
interests available under the Credit Documents or at law, including rights of
set off.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default
described in clauses (v) or (vi) of Section 7.1 relating to bankruptcy and
insolvency, the commitments hereunder shall immediately terminate and the Loans
and all accrued interest and all other indebtedness and other amounts owing
hereunder or under any of the other Credit Documents owing to the Bank shall
become immediately due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or the
giving of any notice or other action by the Bank, all of which are hereby waived
by the Borrower.

     SECTION 8 MISCELLANEOUS

                                       14
<PAGE>

     8.1  Notices.  Notices and other communications shall be effective, and
          -------
duly given, (i) when received, (ii) when transmitted by telecopy or other
facsimile device to the numbers set out below if transmitted before 5:00 p.m. on
a Business Day, or otherwise on the next following Business Day, (iii) the day
following the day on which delivered prepaid to a reputable national overnight
air courier service, or (iv) the third Business Day following the day sent by
certified or registered mail postage prepaid, in each case to the parties at the
address shown below, or at such other address as may be specified by written
notice to the other parties:

          Borrower:      Spotlight Health, Inc.
                         1940 Century Park East, 4/th/ Floor
                         Los Angeles, CA 90067
                         Attn:   Tyler J. Spring
                                 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
                                 Officer
                         Phone:  310-282-2410
                         Fax:    310-552-6212

                         with a copy to:

                         Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc.
                         3151 17th Street Extension
                         Wilmington, North Carolina 28412
                         Attn:   Fred Davenport
                                 General Counsel
                         Phone:  (910) 772-6956
                         Fax:    (910) 772-6951

          Bank:          First Union National Bank
                         Charlotte Plaza
                         201 South College Street, CP-6
                         Charlotte, NC 28288
                         Attn:   Doug Davis
                                 Vice President
                         Phone:  704-715-2370
                         Fax:    704-374-4793

     8.2  Right of Set-Off.  In addition to other rights now or hereafter
          ----------------
available to the Bank under the Credit Documents or under applicable law, the
Bank may, after the occurrence of an Event of Default, exercise rights of set-
off and may appropriate and apply any and all deposits (general and specific) or
other amounts held or owing by the Bank to the Loans and other amounts owing by
the Borrower or any Guarantor hereunder or under the other Credit Documents,
regardless of whether the Loans or such other amounts are contingent or
unmatured, without presentment, demand, protest or notice of any kind (any such
rights of presentment, demand, protest or notice being hereby waived).

     8.3  Benefit of Agreement.  This Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall
          --------------------
inure to the benefit of, successors and assigns of the parties hereto; provided
                                                                       --------
that neither the Borrower nor any Guarantor may assign or transfer any its
obligations or interests without prior written consent of the Bank.

     8.4  No Waiver.  No failure or delay on the part of the Bank in exercising
          ---------
any right, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Credit Document and
no course of dealing between the Bank, on the one hand, and the Credit Parties,
on the other hand, shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or

                                       15
<PAGE>

partial exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder or under any other
Credit Document preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise
of any other right, power or privilege hereunder or thereunder. The rights and
remedies provided herein are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or
remedies which the Bank would otherwise have.

     8.5    Payment of Expenses.  The Borrower agrees to: (i) pay all reasonable
            -------------------
out-of-pocket costs and expenses of the Bank in connection with (A) negotiation,
preparation, execution and delivery of the Credit Documents (including
reasonable fees and expenses of Bank counsel, Moore & Van Allen, PLLC) and any
amendments, waivers or consents relating to the Credit Documents and (B)
enforcement of the Credit Documents and the documents and instruments referred
to therein (including, without limitation, in connection with any such
enforcement, the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Bank);
(ii) pay and hold the Bank harmless from and against any and all present and
future stamp and other similar taxes with respect to the foregoing matters and
save the Bank harmless from and against any and all liabilities with respect to
or resulting from any delay or omission (other than to the extent attributable
to the Bank) to pay such taxes; and (iv) indemnify the Bank, its officers,
directors, employees and representatives from and hold each of them harmless
against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses incurred by
any of them as a result of, or arising out of, or in any way related to, or by
reason of any investigation, litigation or other proceeding (whether or not the
Bank is a party thereto) related to the entering into and/or performance of any
Credit Document or the use of proceeds of the Loans (including other extensions
of credit) hereunder or the consummation of any other transactions contemplated
in any Credit Document, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and
disbursements of counsel incurred in connection with any such investigation,
litigation or other proceeding (but excluding any such losses, liabilities,
claims, damages or expenses to the extent incurred by reason of gross negligence
or willful misconduct on the part of the Person to be indemnified).

     8.6    Amendments.  Neither this Agreement nor any of the other Credit
            ----------
Documents may be amended or modified, nor shall consents or waivers be effective
except with the written consent of the parties hereto.

     8.7    Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of
            ------------
counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original,
but all of which shall constitute one and the same agreement.  It shall not be
necessary in making proof of this Agreement to produce or account for more than
one such counterpart.

     8.8    Headings.  The headings of the sections and subsections hereof are
            --------
provided for convenience only and shall not in any way affect the meaning or
construction of any provision of this Agreement.

     8.9    Survival.  The indemnities and payment obligations hereunder,
            --------
including those set out in Sections 2.8, 2.9, 2.10, 2.11, 2.12, 2.13 and 8.5,
and the representations and warranties made herein or in connection herewith
shall survive the making and repayment of the Loans and termination of
commitments hereunder.

     8.10   Governing Law.  This Agreement and the rights and obligations of the
            -------------
parties hereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of North Carolina.

     8.11.  Arbitration; Consent to Jurisdiction and Service of Process.
            -----------------------------------------------------------

     (a)    UPON DEMAND OF ANY PARTY HERETO, WHETHER MADE BEFORE OR AFTER
INSTITUTION OF ANY JUDICIAL ACTION, ANY DISPUTE, CLAIM OR CONTROVERSY ARISING
OUT OF OR CONNECTED HEREWITH OR WITH THE CREDIT DOCUMENTS

                                       16
<PAGE>

("DISPUTES") SHALL BE RESOLVED BY BINDING ARBITRATION AS PROVIDED HEREIN.
  --------
DISPUTES MAY INCLUDE, WITHOUT LIMITATION, TORT CLAIMS, COUNTERCLAIMS, CLAIMS
BROUGHT AS CLASS ACTIONS AND CLAIMS ARISING HEREFROM OR FROM CREDIT DOCUMENTS
EXECUTED IN THE FUTURE. ARBITRATION SHALL BE CONDUCTED UNDER THE COMMERCIAL
FINANCIAL DISPUTES ARBITRATION RULES (THE "ARBITRATION RULES") OF THE AMERICAN
                                           -----------------
ARBITRATION ASSOCIATION AND TITLE 9 OF THE U.S. CODE. ALL ARBITRATION HEARINGS
SHALL BE CONDUCTED IN CHARLOTTE, MECKLENBURG COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA, OR SUCH
OTHER PLACE AS AGREED TO IN WRITING BY THE PARTIES. A JUDGMENT UPON THE AWARD
MAY BE ENTERED IN ANY COURT HAVING JURISDICTION, AND ALL DECISIONS SHALL BE IN
WRITING. THE PANEL FROM WHICH ALL ARBITRATORS ARE SELECTED SHALL BE COMPRISED OF
LICENSED ATTORNEYS HAVING AT LEAST TEN YEARS' EXPERIENCE REPRESENTING PARTIES IN
SECURED LENDING TRANSACTIONS. NOTWITHSTANDING THE FOREGOING, THIS ARBITRATION
PROVISION DOES NOT APPLY TO DISPUTES UNDER OR RELATED TO INTEREST PROTECTION
AGREEMENTS.

     (b)  Notwithstanding the preceding binding arbitration provision, the Bank
preserves certain remedies that may be exercised during a Dispute. The Bank
shall have the right to proceed in any court of proper jurisdiction or by self
help to exercise or prosecute the following remedies, as applicable: (i) all
rights to foreclose against any real or personal property or other security by
exercising a power of sale granted in the Credit Documents or under applicable
law, (ii) all rights of self help including peaceful occupation of real property
and collection of rents, set-off and peaceful possession of personal property,
(iii) obtaining provisional or ancillary remedies including injunctive relief,
sequestration, garnishment, attachment and appointment of receiver, (iv) when
applicable, a judgment by confession of judgment and (v) other remedies.
Preservation of these remedies does not limit the power of an arbitrator to
grant similar remedies that may be requested by a party in a Dispute.

     (c)  BY EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF THIS AGREEMENT, EACH OF THE PARTIES
HERETO ACCEPTS, FOR ITSELF AND IN CONNECTION WITH ITS PROPERTIES, GENERALLY AND
UNCONDITIONALLY, THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION RELATING TO ANY ARBITRATION
PROCEEDINGS CONDUCTED UNDER THE ARBITRATION RULES IN CHARLOTTE, MECKLENBURG
COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA AND IRREVOCABLY AGREES TO BE BOUND BY ANY FINAL JUDGMENT
RENDERED THEREBY IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT FROM WHICH NO APPEAL HAS BEEN
TAKEN OR IS AVAILABLE. Each of the parties hereto irrevocably agrees that all
process in any such arbitration proceedings or otherwise may be effected by
mailing a copy thereof by registered or certified mail (or any substantially
similar form of mail), postage prepaid, to it at its address set forth in
Section 8.1 or at such other address of which such party shall have been
notified pursuant thereto, such service being hereby acknowledged by each party
hereto to be effective and binding service in every respect. Each party hereto
irrevocably waives any objection, including, without limitation, any objection
to the laying of venue or based on the grounds of forum non conveniens which it
may now or hereafter have to the bringing of any such arbitration proceeding in
any jurisdiction. Nothing herein shall affect the right to serve process in any
other manner permitted by law or shall limit the right of any party to bring
proceedings against the Borrower or any party hereto in any court or pursuant to
arbitration proceedings in any other jurisdiction.

                 [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]

                                       17
<PAGE>

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Loan Agreement has been executed this day by duly
authorized officers of the undersigned parties.


BORROWER:                             SPOTLIGHT HEALTH, INC.,
                                      a Delaware corporation

                                      By: /s/ Tyler J. Spring
                                          -------------------------------------
                                      Name:  Tyler J. Spring
                                      Title: Senior Vice President and Chief
                                             Financial Officer


GUARANTORS:                           PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, INC.,
                                      a North Carolina corporation

                                      By: /s/ Fred N. Eshelman
                                          -------------------------------------
                                      Name:  Fred N. Eshelman
                                      Title: Chief Executive Officer


BANK:                                 FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK

                                      By: /s/ Douglas Davis
                                          -------------------------------------
                                      Name:  Douglas Davis
                                      Title: Vice President

                                       18
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.164
<SEQUENCE>13
<FILENAME>0013.txt
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.164

                         AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT


     THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT (the "Amendment") is made this 28th
                                                   ---------
day of January, 1998 by and between PPD PHARMACO, INC., a Texas corporation
(hereinafter, the "Tenant"), and WEEKS REALTY, L.P., a Georgia limited
                   ------
partnership (hereinafter, the "Landlord").
                               --------


                                  WITNESSETH:

     WHEREAS, pursuant to a Lease Agreement dated July 9, 1997 by and between
Landlord and Tenant (the Lease Agreement, and all amendments thereto shall be
referred to herein collectively as the "Lease") , Landlord leased to Tenant
                                        -----
certain premises in a building located at 4025 Paramount Parkway, Morrisville,
Wake County, North Carolina 27560, all as more particularly described in the
Lease; and

     WHEREAS, the parties desire to modify the Lease to, among other things,
confirm the actual rentable sqare footage of the Premises as provided herein.

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of cash in hand paid and the promises and
the provisions contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration,
the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, Landlord and Tenant
hereby agree to amend and modify the Lease as follows:

     1.   Premises.   The rentable square footage of the "Premises" is modified
          --------
to reflect the corrected measurement of 100,987 rentable square feet.

     2.   Effective Date.    The provisions of this Amendment shall be and
          --------------
become effective as of the day and year first above written.

     3.   Severability.   In the event any term, covenant or condition of this
          ------------
Amendment, the Lease, or any amendments thereto shall to any extent be invalid
or unenforceable, the remainder shall not be affected thereby and each term,
covenant or condition shall be valid and enforceable to the full extent
permitted by law.

     4.   Successors and Assigns.   This Amendment shall apply to, inure to the
          ----------------------
benefit of, and be binding upon the parties hereto and upon their respective
heirs, legal representatives, successors and permitted assigns, except as
otherwise provided herein.

     5.   Authority of Tenant.   Tenant certifies to Landlord that it is
          -------------------
authorized to enter into this Amendment, and that those persons signing below on
its behalf are authorized to do so, and shall promptly upon the request of
Landlord provide a resolution to this effect.

     6.   Interpretation.   Although the printed provisions of this Amendment
          --------------
were drafted by Landlord, such fact shall not cause this Amendment to be
construed either for or against Landlord or Tenant.
<PAGE>

     7.   Full Force and Effect.   Except as modified hereby, the Lease remains
          ---------------------
unmodified and in full force and effect.

     8.   Governing Law.   This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in
          -------------
accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina.

     9.   Mutual Acknowledgement of Non-Existence of Claims.  Landlord and
          -------------------------------------------------
Tenant acknowledge and agree that as of the day hereof there are no known claims
by either party against the other party hereto arising from the relationship as
Landlord and Tenant, respectively, pursuant to the Lease, as amended.

     10.  Confidentiality.   The terms and provisions of the Lease, and this
          ---------------
Amendment are strictly confidential, are to be shared by Tenant only with its
accountant, employees, and attorneys, and each of those parties shall be advised
of the confidential nature of the Lease, and this Amendment.

[THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE WAS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.]
- ----------------------------------------------------------

                                       2
<PAGE>

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereunto executed this
Amendment causing their respective seals to be affixed hereto the day and year
first above written.


                                 LANDLORD:


                                 WEEKS REALTY, L.P. (SEAL), a Georgia
                                 Limited partnership authorized to do business
                                 in the State of North Carolinaas Weeks
                                 Realty Partnership

                                 BY:  WEEKS GP HOLDINGS, INC., a
                                      Georgia corporation, its sole general
                                      partner

Date of execution:               By:  /s/ Robert G. Cutlip
                                      --------------------
    3/24/98                               Robert G. Cutlip,
- -----------------                         Senior Vice President



                                 TENANT:


                                 PPD PHARMACO, INC., a Texas
                                 Corporation


ATTEST:

By: /s/ Fred B. Davenport        By: /s/ Thomas W. D'Alonzo
    ---------------------            -----------------------
        Secretary                    President


[CORPORATE SEAL]

                                       3
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.165
<SEQUENCE>14
<FILENAME>0014.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SECOND AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.165

                      SECOND AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT

     THIS SECOND AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT (the "Amendment") is made this
                                                    ---------
26/th/ day of June, 1998 by and between PPD PHARMACO, INC., a Texas corporation
(hereinafter, the "Tenant"), and WEEKS REALTY, L.P., a Georgia limited
                   ------
partnership (hereinafter, the "Landlord").
                               --------


                                  WITNESSETH:

     WHEREAS, pursuant to a Lease Agreement dated July 9, 1997 by and between
Landlord and Tenant (the Lease Agreement, and all amendments thereto shall be
referred to herein collectively as the "Lease"), Landlord leased to Tenant
                                        -----
certain premises in a building located at 4025 Paramount Parkway, Morrisville,
Wake County, North Carolina 27560, all as more particularly described in the
Lease; and

     WHEREAS, the Lease was amended by a First Amendment to Lease Agreement by
and between Landlord and Tenant dated January 28, 1998 to confirm the actual
rentable square footage of the Premises as provided therein; and

     WHEREAS, the parties desire to modify the Lease to, among other things,
modify the provisions of paragraph 9 of the Lease, as provided herein.

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of cash in hand paid and the promises and
the provisions contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration,
the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, Landlord and Tenant
hereby agree to amend and modify the Lease as follows:

     1. Assignment and Sublease. The first subparagraph of Paragraph 9 of the
        -----------------------
Lease is hereby deleted, and the following inserted in lieu thereof:

     "Tenant shall not sublet the Premises or the interest of Tenant therein in
     whole or in part, or assign this Lease or the interest of Tenant therein in
     whole or in part, without the prior written consent of Landlord, which
     consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; provided, however,
     Tenant may not sublease or assign, in any twelve month period,
     cumulatively, more than 25 percent of its then current rentable square feet
     in total in the Building and in that certain building consisting of
     approximately 118,825 rentable square feet to be constructed by Landlord in
     Perimeter Park West as described in that certain Lease Agreement by and
     between Landlord and Tenant dated June 26, 1998.  Further, Tenant may not
     sell, lien, or encumber its interest in this Lease, or assign or delegate
     the management or permit the use or occupancy of the Premises in whole or
     in part by anyone other than Tenant without the prior written consent of
     Landlord, which consent Landlord may withhold in its sole discretion.
     Landlord and Tenant acknowledge and agree that the foregoing provisions
     have been freely
<PAGE>

     negotiated by the parties hereto and that Landlord would not have entered
     into this Lease without Tenant's consent to the terms of this Paragraph 9."

     2.  Effective Date. The provisions of this Amendment shall be and become
         --------------
effective as of the day and year first above written.

     3.  Severability. In the event any term, covenant or condition of this
         ------------
Amendment, the Lease, or any amendments thereto shall to any extent be invalid
or unenforceable, the remainder shall not be affected thereby and each term,
covenant or condition shall be valid and enforceable to the full extent
permitted by law.

     4.  Successors and Assigns. This Amendment shall apply to, inure to the
         ----------------------
benefit of, and be binding upon the parties hereto and upon their respective
heirs, legal representatives, successors and permitted assigns, except as
otherwise provided herein.

     5.  Authority of Tenant. Tenant certifies to Landlord that it is authorized
         -------------------
to enter into this Amendment, and that those persons signing below on its behalf
are authorized to do so, and shall promptly upon the request of Landlord provide
a resolution to this effect.

     6.  Interpretation. Although the printed provisions of this Amendment were
         --------------
drafted by Landlord, such fact shall not cause this Amendment to be construed
either for or against Landlord or Tenant.

     7.  Full Force and Effect. Except as modified hereby, the Lease remains
         ---------------------
unmodified and in full force and effect.

     8.  Governing Law. This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in
         -------------
accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina.

     9.  Mutual Acknowledgement of Non-Existence of Claims. Landlord and Tenant
         -------------------------------------------------
acknowledge and agree that as of the day hereof there are no known claims by
either party against the other party hereto arising from the relationship as
Landlord and Tenant, respectively, pursuant to the Lease, as amended.

     10. Confidentiality. The terms and provisions of the Lease, and this
         ---------------
Amendment are strictly confidential, are to be shared by Tenant only with its
accountant, employees, and attorneys, and each of those parties shall be advised
of the confidential nature of the Lease, and this Amendment.

[THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE WAS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.]
- ----------------------------------------------------------

                                       2
<PAGE>

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereunto executed this
Amendment causing their respective seals to be affixed hereto the day and year
first above written.

                                   LANDLORD:

                                   WEEKS REALTY, L.P. (SEAL) , a Georgia
                                   Limited partnership authorized to do business
                                   in the State of North Carolina as Weeks
                                   Realty Partnership

                                   BY: WEEKS GP HOLDINGS, INC., a
                                       Georgia corporation, its sole general
                                       partner

Date of execution:                 By: /s/ Robert G. Cutlip
   7/9/98                              --------------------
- -------------------                        Robert G. Cutlip,
                                           Senior Vice President

                                   TENANT:

                                   PPD PHARMACO, INC., a Texas
                                   Corporation

ATTEST:

By: /s/ Fred B. Davenport          By: /s/ Thomas W. D'Alonzo
    ---------------------              ----------------------
        Secretary                        President


[CORPORATE SEAL]

                                       3
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.166
<SEQUENCE>15
<FILENAME>0015.txt
<DESCRIPTION>THIRD AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.166

                      THIRD AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT

     THIS THIRD AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT (the "Amendment") is made this
                                                   ---------
18/th/ day of February, 1999 by and between PPD PHARMACO, INC., a Texas
corporation (hereinafter, the "Tenant"), and WEEKS REALTY, L.P., a Georgia
                               ------
limited partnership (hereinafter, the "Landlord").
                                       --------


                                  WITNESSETH:

     WHEREAS, pursuant to a Lease Agreement dated July 9, 1997 by and between
Landlord and Tenant (the Lease Agreement, and all amendments thereto shall be
referred to herein collectively as the "Lease") , Landlord leased to Tenant
                                        -----
certain premises in a building located in Morrisville, Wake County, North
Carolina 27560 which has been provided the address of 4025 Paramount Parkway,
all as more particularly described in the Lease; and

     WHEREAS, the parties desire to modify the Lease to, modify its provisions
regarding the termination of certain lease agreements between Landlord and
Tenant, as provided herein

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of cash in hand paid and the promises and
the provisions contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration,
the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, Landlord and Tenant
hereby agree to amend and modify the Lease as follows:

     1.  Termination of Lease. Paragraph 1(e) of  the Lease is hereby deleted,
         ---------------------
and the following new paragraph 1(e) is inserted in lieu thereof:

         "(e) Termination of Leases. Upon Tenant entering into occupancy of: (i)
              ---------------------
the premises leased by Tenant from Landlord pursuant to that certain Lease
Agreement dated June 26, 1998 (the "4023 Lease"), and provided there is no
                                    ----------
default or event of default under the 4023 Lease by Tenant, all obligations of
Landlord and Tenant under that certain Lease Agreement dated October 25, 1995
and amended February 1, 1997 for 29,113 rentable square feet of space at 1400
Perimeter Park (the " 1400 Perimeter Park Premises") shall be deemed terminated
                      ------------------- --------
with respect to all of the 1400 Perimeter Park Premises as defined therein
(except as expressly provided therein, and except for obligations accrued
thereunder and remaining unpaid and unsatisfied), other than duties and
obligations for the first floor of the 1400 Perimeter Park Premises which
consists of 15,803 rentable square feet, all of which obligations shall
continue, and (ii) the Premises, and provided there is no default or event of
default under this Lease by Tenant, all obligations of Landlord and Tenant under
that certain Lease Agreement for 20,000 rentable square feet at 1500 Perimeter
Park (the "1500 Perimeter Park Premises") dated February 25, 1995 and amended
           ----------------------------
April 4, 1997 and October 25, 1995, shall be deemed terminated with respect to
the 1500 Perimeter Park Premises, and the parties hereto shall
<PAGE>

have no further liability thereunder, except as expressly provided therein, and
except for obligations accrued thereunder and remaining unpaid and unsatisfied."

     2.  Effective Date. The provisions of this Amendment shall be and become
         --------------
effective as of the day and year first above written.

     3.  Severability. In the event any term, covenant or condition of this
         ------------
Amendment, the Lease, or any amendments thereto shall to any extent be invalid
or unenforceable, the remainder shall not be affected thereby and each term,
covenant or condition shall be valid and enforceable to the full extent
permitted by law.

     4.  Successors and Assigns. This Amendment shall apply to, inure to the
         ----------------------
benefit of, and be binding upon the parties hereto and upon their respective
heirs, legal representatives, successors and permitted assigns, except as
otherwise provided herein.

     5.  Authority of Tenant. Tenant certifies to Landlord that it is
         -------------------
authorized to enter into this Amendment, and that those persons signing below on
its behalf are authorized to do so, and shall promptly upon the request of
Landlord provide a resolution to this effect.

     6.  Interpretation. Although the printed provisions of this Amendment were
         --------------
drafted by Landlord, such fact shall not cause this Amendment to be construed
either for or against Landlord or Tenant.

     7.  Full Force and Effect. Except as modified hereby, the Lease remains
         ---------------------
unmodified and in full force and effect.

     8.  Governing Law. This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in
         -------------
accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina.

     9.  Mutual Acknowledgement of Non-Existence of Claims. Landlord and
         -------------------------------------------------
Tenant acknowledge and agree that as of the day hereof there are no known claims
by either party against the other party hereto arising from the relationship as
Landlord and Tenant, respectively, pursuant to the Lease, as amended.

     10. Confidentiality. The terms and provisions of the Lease, and this
         ---------------
Amendment are strictly confidential, are to be shared by Tenant only with its
accountant, employees, and attorneys, and each of those parties shall be advised
of the confidential nature of the Lease, and this Amendment.

[THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE WAS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.]
- ----------------------------------------------------------

                                       2
<PAGE>

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereunto executed this
Amendment causing their respective seals to be affixed hereto the day and year
first above written.

                                   LANDLORD:

                                   WEEKS REALTY, L.P. (SEAL) , a Georgia
                                   Limited partnership authorized to do business
                                   In the State of North Carolina as Weeks
                                   Realty Partnership

                                   BY: WEEKS GP HOLDINGS, INC., a
                                       Georgia corporation, its sole general
                                       partner

                                   By: /s/ Robert G. Cutlip
                                       --------------------
                                           Robert G. Cutlip,
                                           Senior Vice President


                                   TENANT:

                                   PPD PHARMACO, INC., a Texas
                                   corporation qualified to do business
                                   in North Carolina


ATTEST:

By: /s/ Fred B. Davenport          By: /s/ Thomas W. D'Alonzo
    ---------------------              ---------------------
        Secretary                        President


[CORPORATE SEAL]

                                       3
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.167
<SEQUENCE>16
<FILENAME>0016.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.167

                      FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT

     THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE AGREEMENT (the "Amendment") is made this
                                                   ---------
28/th/ day of February, 2000 by and between PPD DEVELOPMENT, INC., a Texas
corporation formerly known as PPD Pharmaco, Inc. (hereinafter, the "Tenant"),
                                                                    ------
and DUKE-WEEKS REALTY LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, an Indiana limited partnership,
successor in interest to Weeks Realty, L.P., (hereinafter, the "Landlord").
                                                                --------


                                  WITNESSETH:

     WHEREAS, pursuant to a Lease Agreement dated December 16, 1998 by and
between Landlord and Tenant (the Lease Agreement, and all amendments thereto
shall be referred to herein collectively as the "Lease"), Landlord leased to
                                                 -----
Tenant certain premises in a building located in Morrisvile, Wake County, North
Carolina 27560 which has been provided the address of 3500 Paramount Parkway,
all as more particularly described in the Lease; and

     WHEREAS, the parties desire to modify the Lease to, modify its provisions
regarding the termination of certain lease agreements between Landlord and
Tenant, as provided herein.

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of cash in hand paid and the promises and
the provisions contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration,
the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, Landlord and Tenant
hereby agree to amend and modify the Lease as follows:

     1.  Premises.   The Lease is hereby modified to reflect a corrected rental
         --------
square footage of 61,603 rentable square feet.

     2.  Effective Date.    The provisions of this Amendment shall be and become
         --------------
effective as of the day and year first above written.

     3.  Severability.   In the event any term, covenant or condition of this
         ------------
Amendment, the Lease, or any amendments thereto shall to any extent be invalid
or unenforceable, the remainder shall not be affected thereby and each term,
covenant or condition shall be valid and enforceable to the full extent
permitted by law.

     4.  Successors and Assigns.   This Amendment shall apply to, inure to the
         ----------------------
benefit of, and be binding upon the parties hereto and upon their respective
heirs, legal representatives, successors and permitted assigns, except as
otherwise provided herein.

     5.  Authority of Tenant.   Tenant certifies to Landlord that it is
         -------------------
authorized to enter into this Amendment, and that those persons signing below on
its behalf are authorized to do so, and shall promptly upon the request of
Landlord provide a resolution to this effect.
<PAGE>

     6.  Interpretation.   Although the printed provisions of this Amendment
         --------------
were drafted by Landlord, such fact shall not cause this Amendment to be
construed either for or against Landlord or Tenant.

     7.  Full Force and Effect.   Except as modified hereby, the Lease remains
         ---------------------
unmodified and in full force and effect.

     8.  Governing Law.   This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in
         -------------
accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina.

     9.  Mutual Acknowledgement of Non-Existence of Claims.  Landlord and
         -------------------------------------------------
Tenant acknowledge and agree that as of the day hereof there are no known claims
by either party against the other party hereto arising from the relationship as
Landlord and Tenant, respectively, pursuant to the Lease, as amended.

     10. Confidentiality.   The terms and provisions of the Lease, and this
         ---------------
Amendment are strictly confidential, are to be shared by Tenant only with its
accountant, employees, and attorneys, and each of those parties shall be advised
of the confidential nature of the Lease, and this Amendment.

[THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE WAS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK.]
- ----------------------------------------------------------

                                       2
<PAGE>

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereunto executed this
Amendment causing their respective seals to be affixed hereto the day and year
first above written.

                               LANDLORD:

                               DUKE-WEEKS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP,
                               an Indiana limited partnership

                               BY: DUKE-WEEKS REALTY CORPORATION, an
                                   Indiana corporation, its sole general partner



                               By: /s/ Dave Lindner
                                   ----------------
                                   Dave Lindner,
                                   Senior Vice President


                               TENANT:

                               PPD DEVELOPMENT, INC., a Texas
                               corporation qualified to do business in
                               North Carolina


ATTEST:

By: /s/ Fred B. Davenport      By: /s/ Fred Eshelman
    ---------------------          -----------------
        Secretary                      President


[CORPORATE SEAL]

                                       3
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.168
<SEQUENCE>17
<FILENAME>0017.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FIRST AGREEMENT TO  EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.168

                    FIRST AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT


     THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT, made this 19th day of
February, 2001 and effective January 1, 2001 (the "Effective Date"), by and
between PPD Development, LLC, a Texas limited liability company and
successor-in-interest to PPD Development, Inc. (hereinafter "PPD Development"),
and Francis J. Casieri (hereinafter "Employee"), amends that certain Employment
Agreement dated December 17, 1999, by and between PPD Development and Employee
(the "Agreement").

     For and in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants and
considerations herein, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt
and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby amend the
Agreement as follows:

     1.  Attached hereto as Appendix I (effective January 1, 2001) is the bonus
                            ----------
plan agreed upon by Employee and PPD Development for the one-year renewal term
beginning on the Effective Date.

     2.  Section 3 of the Agreement entitled "Salary" is rewritten as follows:
                                              ------
         "For all services rendered by Employee under this Agreement, PPD
         Development shall pay to Employee for the one-year term beginning on
         January 1, 2001 (the "First Renewal Term") an annual base salary of
         $171,720. Employee shall also be entitled to a Quarterly Bonus if the
         Businesses (as hereinafter defined) attain a certain level of
         Authorizations for the applicable calendar quarter of the First Renewal
         Term, as set forth in Appendix I (effective January 1, 2001) attached.
         Each Quarterly Bonus, if any, to which Employee is entitled shall be
         paid within thirty (30) days after its determination. Employee shall
         also be entitled to a Plan Bonus as provided for in Appendix I
                                                             ----------
         (effective January 1, 2001) attached, which Plan Bonus, which shall be
         paid to Employee at the same time annual bonuses, if any, for the First
         Renewal Term are or would have been paid to other senior executives of
         PPD Development. In addition, Employee shall be entitled to an award of
         non-qualified stock options under the Pharmaceutical Product
         Development, Inc. ("PPD") Equity Compensation Plan if Authorizations
         for the Businesses attain the Annual Target for the First Renewal Term
         hereof as set forth in Appendix I (effective January 1, 2001).  Any
                                ----------
         award of stock options for the First Renewal Term shall have an
         exercise price equal to the NASDAQ closing price on December 31, 2001,
         and shall contain such other terms and conditions, including a
         three-year linear vesting schedule, as included in stock option awards
         generally for other senior executives of PPD Development. A new bonus
         plan shall be agreed upon by Employee and PPD Development for each
         one-year renewal term of this Agreement."
<PAGE>

     3.  The Agreement, as herein amended, shall continue in full force and
effect.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this First Amendment to
Employment Agreement to be executed effective the Effective Date.



                                                PPD DEVELOPMENT, LLC

                                                By: /s/ Fredric N. Eshelman
                                                Name: Fredric N. Eshelman
                                                Title: Chief Executive Officer



                                                /s/ Francis J. Casieri  (SEAL)
                                                ------------------------
                                                Francis J. Casieri
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>18
<FILENAME>0018.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                      Exhibit 21
          Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc., and Subsidiaries

                                 Subsidiaries

The subsidiaries of Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc., as of February 15,
2001, are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                    Jurisdiction of Incorporation or
                                   Name of Subsidiary                                         Organized in
      -------------------------------------------------------------------           ---------------------------------------
  <S>                                                                               <C>
  1.  Applied Bioscience International Inc.                                                     Delaware
  2.  PPD Development, LLC                                                                       Texas
  3.  Pharmaco International Holdings, Inc.                                                     Delaware
  4.  Pharmaco Investments Inc.                                                                 Delaware
  5.  PPD France SNC                                                                             France
  6.  PPD Scandinavia AB                                                                         Sweden
  7.  PPD Canada, Ltd.                                                                           Canada
  8.  PPD Do Brazil-Suporte a Pesquisa, LTDA                                                     Brazil
  9.  Pharmaco International Holdings GmbH                                                      Germany
 10.  PPD Germany GmbH                                                                          Germany
 11.  PPD Poland Sp. zo.o                                                                        Poland
 12.  PPD Czech Republic, S.r.o.                                                             Czech Republic
 13.  PPD Germany GmbH & Co. KG                                                                 Germany
 14.  Pharmaceutical Product Development (Pty) Ltd.                                           South Africa
 15.  PPD Hungary R&D, Ltd.                                                                     Hungary
 16.  PPD UK Holdings Ltd.                                                                   United Kingdom
 17.  PPD Global Ltd.                                                                        United Kingdom
 18.  Leicester Clinical Research Centre, Ltd.                                               United Kingdom
 19.  Chelmsford Clinical Trials Unit Ltd.                                                   United Kingdom
 20.  Gabbay Ltd.                                                                            United Kingdom
 21.  Data Analysis & Research (DAR), Ltd.                                                   United Kingdom
 22.  APBI Investor Relations Inc.                                                             New Jersey
 23.  Clinix International Inc.                                                                 Delaware
 24.  APBI Finance Corporation                                                                  Delaware
 25.  PPD Pharmaco Mexico S.A. de C.V.                                                           Mexico
 26.  PPD Australia Pty Limited                                                                Australia
 27.  PPD Italy SRL                                                                              Italy
 28.  Pharmaceutical Product Development Spain SL                                                Spain
 29.  PPD Development (Thailand) Co., Ltd.                                                      Thailand
 30.  Cambridge Applied Nutrition Toxicology and Bioscience Limited                          United Kingdom
 31.  Clinical Technology Centre (International) Limited                                     United Kingdom
 32.  Genupro, Inc.                                                                          North Carolina
 33.  Belmont Research, Inc.                                                                 Massachusetts
 34.  PPD Discovery, Inc.                                                                    North Carolina
 35.  Target Discovery, Inc.                                                                 North Carolina
 36.  SARCO, Inc.                                                                               Delaware
 37.  PPD Virtual, Inc.                                                                      North Carolina
 38.  ATP, LLC.                                                                              North Carolina
 39.  Clinical Science Research International, Ltd.                                          United Kingdom
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

Subsidiaries 1, 33, 34 and 37 are wholly owned subsidiaries of Pharmaceutical
Product Development, Inc.

Subsidiaries 2, 16, 22, 23 and 24 are wholly owned subsidiaries of Subsidiary 1.

Subsidiaries 3, 4 and 38 are wholly owned subsidiaries of Subsidiary 2.

Subsidiary 5 is owned 99% by Subsidiary 3 and 1% by Subsidiary 22.

Subsidiaries 6, 7, 8, 9, 14, 26, 27, 28 and 29 are wholly owned subsidiaries of
Subsidiary 3.

Subsidiaries 10, 11 and 12 are wholly owned subsidiaries of Subsidiary 9.

Subsidiary 13 is owned 72% by Subsidiary 9 and 28% by Subsidiary 10.

Subsidiary 15 is owned 96.7% by Subsidiary 9 and 3.3% by Subsidiary 3.

Subsidiaries 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21 are wholly owned subsidiaries of Subsidiary
16.

Subsidiaries 30, 31, and 39 are wholly owned subsidiaries of Subsidiary 17.

Subsidiaries 35 and 36 are wholly owned subsidiaries of Subsidiary 34.

Subsidiary 25 is owned 99% by Subsidiary 3 and 1% by Subsidiary 2.

Subsidiary 32 is a wholly owned subsidiary of Subsidiary 37.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>19
<FILENAME>0019.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.1

                      CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-20925) of Pharmaceutical Product
Development, Inc. and its subsidiaries of our report dated January 29, 2001
relating to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2000 and
1999 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000,
which appear in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Raleigh, North Carolina
March 13, 2001
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
